Cape Town - The Matzikama Municipality has stuck to its guns following criticism over the “reckless” appointment of fraud and corruption accused Ian Kenned as the municipality’s acting municipal manager. Kenned’s appointment follows that of former MM Aldrick Hendricks, who tendered his resignation last month. DA West Region chairperson Koos Steyn said the decision by the ANC to appoint Kenned was highly problematic, given his history in public service. “In his previous tenure as MM of Stellenbosch, Mr Kenned faced the courts in 2016 on charges of fraud and corruption. “Currently, Mr Kenned is again facing charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering, allegedly committed during his time at the Cederberg Municipality,” he said. But in a statement, the municipality said it had full confidence in Kenned’s abilities. “After six months in control of the Matzikama Municipality, our initial assessments reveal an urgent need for meaningful intervention in respect of the operations and financial management of the municipality. “A prevailing culture of poor governance has led to a rapid financial decline over the last two years.” The municipality said incompetent senior managers, bloated staff structures and poor financial management were some of the “untenable practices that placed the municipality at risk”. “Addressing this level of corporate governance failure requires specialised skills and experience, and Mr Kenned brings with him extensive experience in this field,” the municipality said. ANC Western Cape Convener Lerumo Kalako said the party had full confidence in Kenne’s abilities and wished him well in his role. “We also commend the mayor for appointing such a well-grounded person to turn the municipality around.” Steyn said they believed the appointment could put the lives and livelihoods of the people of Matzikama in danger. “The DA would like to reiterate that we vehemently oppose the ANC’s reckless and dangerous appointment of Mr Ian Kenned and that the ANC evidently does not have the interest of the people of Matzikama at heart,” he said. Cape Times