A Wits University student has detailed how police allegedly told her to run before opening fire at her during a protest which turned deadly yesterday. A 35-year-old man, whose  identity has not been released, was shot dead metres from the gathering. Wits university students taking part in a peaceful demonstration were challenging the institution’s financial aid policies which they said excluded a great number of students who were yet to register due to financial difficulties. A student at the university who spoke anonymously said: “I was going to the Wits Art Museum because I was going to resume my classes there. After we found the door at the museum was closed, we had to run and since I was running at the back, that’s how I got shot.” The student expressed her shock and disappointment, saying police “enjoyed” shooting her. “I feel let down. He did not care if I was part of the protest or not; he just began to shoot. He looked so happy. It was very disappointing and shocking.” A number of students were also wounded after police dispersed the crowd. The Cape Times’ sister publication The Star determined that at least five students were rushed to hospital for treatment. Yesterday marked the second day of the student protests across Braamfontein where the man was shot. He was reportedly exiting a medical centre in De Beer Street, Braamfontein. A medical doctor at the centre, Dr Tebogo Sedibe confirmed he had just treated the patient. “I treated him, provided him with medication and a sick note. I heard probably about five gunshots but I was still busy with another patient who came in after him.” The doctor said upon his arrival outside, he performed CPR to try to resuscitate the man, adding that his wounds were not caused by rubber bullets. The situation remained tense during the afternoon peak as students proceeded to Empire Road, blockading the road and singing struggle songs. Police continued using rubber bullets to disperse the crowd, while entrances into the university were blocked. Four more students were shot and one student was arrested. Spokesperson for the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid), Ndileka Cola confirmed that they were investigating the matter. “The team will also cordon off the crime scene and conduct an investigation, including locating the person with the video footage, identifying eye witnesses.” Cola added if the incident was within the mandate of Ipid, the normal investigation process would unfold. Wits SRC deputy president Sthembiso Dabula said it was disappointing that police had resorted to violence. “Students were sitting down and putting their hands up but they were being shot at. If this is the response we are going to get from the university and the state, then it's disappointing because what is even worse is that (Higher Education Minister) Blade (Nzimande) is a Communist and understands the struggles we go through,” Dabula said. In a statement, the university expressed its condolences to the family of the deceased. “Wits University is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of a 35-year-old man in the Braamfontein CBD outside of the institution. The university extends its condolences to the family of the deceased. We condemn any form of violence and call on all persons to keep calm during this very difficult time.” The death of the man has sparked an outcry throughout the country, with different political parties calling for accountability from the police. EFF leader Julius Malema said: “We are sending our condolences to his family. We will get to the bottom of this. We want the police who shot him to be held accountable. We will get justice for that person. We want SAPS itself to pay more money for acting irresponsibly.” The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union also condemned the use of brutal force. In a statement, the union said it found it abhorrent that in this day of democracy there were police who treated peaceful marchers like it was still the dark days of apartheid. “The use of brutal force, more especially against unarmed and harmless children, should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. We will write to the Minister of Police to demand answers in this regard.” The Higher Education Department is set to meet with the university’s management today to discuss the matter. gift.tlou@inl.co.za Cape Times