Cape Town – As placement woes continue unabated for many parents in the province, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) says an appeal brought by a mother to overturn her child's rejection from Pinelands High School (PHS) is under way. Urisha Edwards from Thornton said she applied for her son at the school for Grade 8 early last year. “I have serious chronic illnesses and while I was hospitalised last year I had to take an early discharge from the hospital to go into the school to hand in the application forms for my son because they could not take the application forms from him. “This is around the time we were heading into Covid. After the application I received a rejection letter. Immediately when I received that rejection letter I followed the school’s appeal process. At this point my daughter was already in Grade 8 at the school,“ she said. The WCED recently said it had at least 8 682 pupils who were still unplaced in the province, down from 9 949 last year Edwards said despite highlighting that her son met the requirements and had a sister at the school, an initial appeal was declined and she was referred to WCED. “The school is aware that myself and my husband are at present separated. As a separated mother of two, I have been on disability since 2013 as I have been diagnosed with chronic illnesses. ’’Should my son not be able to attend PHS with my daughter, this puts a huge logistical as well as financial stress on me, which can be detrimental to my health. ’’The advantage of having both children at PHS is that there would be a minimal amount to be spent on uniforms as my son would be able to re-use my daughter’s blazer and tracksuit, and my daughter can be able to take care of my son as I am usually hospitalised due to my illnesses,” she said. The mother, who said the process has taken a toll on her health, added she would continue to fight. The school referred questions to the WCED, which said the matter was receiving attention. “The Western Cape Ministry of Education Ministry has received notice of the appeal, and the appeal process is under way.” Meanwhile, the WCED has also appealed to parents and caregivers, particularly those who have learners that will be entering either in Grade R, 1 or 8 next year to apply before March 26 as the admissions process for the 2022 school year is now open Parents can apply via the WCED admissions website: https://admissions.westerncape.gov.za/admissions/login Cape Times