More than five million South Africans may have lost their pensions and other savings in the hands of big financial institutions since 1990. SA Hella Pension Fund, which is understood to have stopped operating in 1996, is among several other funds that have left many pensioners in the dark with regard to what might have happened to their investments. Since 1995, more than R85 billion in investments, including more than R42bn worth of pension funds, are owed to South Africans who have not come forward to make claims. This amount excludes an undisclosed amount of money held by the Government Employees Pension Funds, which also remains unclaimed. Since the early 1990s, to date, there are more than 13 pension and provident funds that were deregistered and transferred to various umbrella funds after employers found it expensive to run them as stand-alone funds. Klara Blaauw, 63, from Uitenhage in the Eastern Cape, is one of the aggrieved beneficiaries whose pension funds were kept by Hella. Blaauw believed that prior to being cancelled, Hella was under Momentum Metropolitan Life’s administration, “but neither Metropolitan Life nor the FSCA (Financial Sector Conduct Authority) has records of what happened to the assets”. Metropolitan denied having taken over the administration of Hella. According to Metropolitan, Glenrand MIB Benefit Services deregistered the Hella Pension Fund in 2013 “with no assets”. Glenrand MIB Benefit Services could not be located for comment because it was itself also liquidated. During the desperate search for her money, Blaauw has been threatened with court interdicts. One institution, which Blaauw named, told her to make an inquiry via her broker. “But I have no clue who my broker is and my previous employer ceased to exist a long time ago.” Blaauw’s family, whose members are all unemployed, survives on her old-age government grant. “If you have not claimed in three years, you lose the right to that money. If you owed somebody money and the person that you owe money does not try to claim in three years … he or she loses the right to claim the money from you,” said BenX Services Portal chief executive officer Sean Rossouw. He said although Hella was deregistered, it could not simply close down until all the funds were transferred somewhere. “The money may have gone to an unclaimed fund held by big administrators to be kept as unclaimed benefit funds. So the Hella pension funds would have been deregistered, and if there is any unclaimed money, it would have been transferred to an unclaimed benefit fund or the Guardian Fund.” In November 2011, FSCA issued a list of pension funds that were administered by Glenrand, and asked them to contact Mervyn I Swartz & Associates within 60 days. FSCA had warned at the time that if Swartz “is unable to establish the existence of the listed funds within a period of 60 days, the fund records … will be destroyed by the liquidator”. In 2012, the FSCA issued another statement with a list of pension funds that had been deemed inactive, and Hella was among them. The FSCA said it had interacted with Blaauw’s son Mallory for the last three years regarding his and his mother’s benefits. “We checked our records and found that Hella Pension Fund transferred to Wesco Group Pension Fund during 1993. Subsequently, Wesco Group Pension Fund’s name changed to Toyota SA Pension Fund during 1999.” The FSCA also contacted Alexander Forbes and NMG to verify if they had member records for Blaauw, but both companies wrote back indicating that they couldn’t find any records for the member. bongani.hans@inl.co.za Independent Media Investigations Unit