Cape Town – More than 600 refugees living at Paint City in Bellville have been left reeling after their ablution facilities were suddenly removed at the weekend, with a blame game ensuing over who is responsible. The refugees have been living at the site for nearly a year, after they were relocated from the streets of Cape Town, under National State of Disaster regulations. The families, which include young children and toddlers, are using anything they can find as toilets, including construction cones. They are forced to discard their waste in dustbins. To clean themselves, the refugees have tied blankets to strings as makeshift shower covers, and rinse themselves with cold water in buckets. Refugee rights activist Hafiz Mohammed said they were in shock when contract workers arrived on Friday and started loading their showers and toilets onto a trailer. “I spoke to the company people and they told me their contract is finished, and that's why they are taking the showers and toilets. Now they have left and we are suffering. “We are making our own makeshift toilets. It's a very bad situation here, we have no idea what we are going to do. We have small children, they can't bathe with cold water, and we fear how the children are going to survive,” he said. Mohammed said they were left with nowhere to turn. “We don't know who to go to. The City says they are not responsible for toilets and showers because they did not bring us here. ’’Home Affairs says they are also not responsible. They are pushing each other, in between politics. After all this, we suffer. “That's why we want to leave South Africa. We are tired, we are tired of the living conditions and living like animals since they threw us here in the tent,” he said. A member of the company supplying the toilets and showers to the site told the Cape Times yesterday that their contracts with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) had ended. “The contract actually ended on February 4, and they extended it for a month and said the City of Cape Town or the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) would pick it up. But nobody did,” the source said. UNHCR spokesperson Kate Pond said they provided sanitation facilities for a period of three months “as an interim measure”. She referred further questions to the City, DPWI and the Department of Home Affairs (DHA). Mayoral committee member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said the refugees' accommodation was established by the DPWI. “We will be writing to the DHA and UNHRC to return the ablution facilities. However, as noted at the Home Affairs portfolio committee, there is a developing humanitarian crisis that worsens the longer the DHA and DPWI ignore the urgent need of the refugees,” he said. DPWI spokesperson Zara Nicholson referred questions to the DHA, as “the DPWI wasn't responsible for any operations at the site any longer”. The DHA had not responded to questions by deadline. The chairperson of the portfolio committee on home affairs, advocate Bongani Bongo, said the removal of the toilets and showers was both morally and legally wrong. He called for all stakeholders to work together to ensure the availability of water and sanitation, and to “conclude the process of verification, reintegration and deportation to ensure the conclusion of the matter”. Cape Times