THE fourth-largest public elections will begin at every school across the country today, with parents urged to fully participate in this year's school governing body (SGB) elections. These are the largest public elections after national, provincial and local elections in the country as more than five million people usually cast their votes for the SGBs. The third-year term of the current members ended yesterday. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to usher in the election cycle with a visit to a school in Katlehong, Gauteng. Motshekga will also witness the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Competition Commission and SGB Associations, which are a culmination of years of investigations and advocacy following complaints received from parents who were forced to buy school uniforms from exclusive selected suppliers. “The importance of this structure in our schools emanates from the important role parents and communities need to play in the education of their children,” said Motshekga. Kerry Mauchline, the spokesperson for Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schäfer, said the voting process in the province would be little different this year due to Covid-19. “Parents will nominate candidates for the voter roll prior to the election. The school will distribute the final voters’ roll for consideration and parents will be expected to vote for their preferred candidate, either physically at the school or via e-voting on a date set by the school. “The school will communicate to parents which system they will use on the day. They will also inform parents of the Covid-19 safety protocols that need to be followed if they are at the school,” said Mauchline. She said depending on the number of learners and parents at the school, how many vote in person instead of e-voting and how many parents participate, at least 10% of the parents at a school must vote to achieve quorum. “We therefore urge parents to participate fully in the nomination and election of members to ensure that the school serves the best interests of their children. We have many examples of outstanding SGBs that have contributed significantly to improving the quality of education at their schools through their good governance,” said Mauchline. She said the new SGBs would learn from their experience and from thorough training and support by WCED officials. The WCED yesterday also announced the admissions process for the 2022 school year is now open. They appealed to parents and caregivers, particularly those who have learners that will be entering either in Grade R, 1 or 8 next year, to apply before March 26. The Western Cape Education Department has already recorded 52 884 applications on the system by 16 606 parents, since Friday morning. Parents must apply to at least three schools, including the ones closest to their home, and order their preference.