NINETY percent of cancers are caused by environmental and lifestyle factors, and kidney cancer is no different. Marking World Kidney Day on March 11, Dr Bha Ndungane-Tlakula, Country Medical Director at Pfizer South Africa explained that while kidney cancer is not preventable, there are factors that can lower the risk. “Kidney cancer is caused by DNA cell mutations that may result in uncontrolled cell division and growth. It is therefore imperative to consider your risk profile or get screened should any symptoms arise.” Nudangane-Tlakula said kidney cancer is almost twice as prevalent in men than women. Those over 50 years of age are largely susceptible to kidney cancers and, along with this, links have been established between obesity, high blood pressure, workplace exposure to certain substances and smoking. She points out that those who have direct family members that have been diagnosed with kidney cancer should take heed as this can increase their risk of developing the disease. “There are many habits that one can change in order to minimise the risk of developing kidney cancer,” Ndungane-Tlakula said. “Firstly, smoking tobacco doubles the risk of developing kidney cancer, and is attributed to around 30% of kidney cancers in men and 25% in women.” She adds that another factor to consider is high blood pressure or hypertension, particularly in men. “Along with this, obesity is also linked to kidney cancer which places greater emphasis on the need for all South Africans to maintain a healthy body weight by eating a well-balanced, low fat diet containing fruits and vegetables.” “Our kidneys primary function is to filter out excess salt, water and waste from our blood and turn it into urine. As such, symptoms of kidney cancer can include, blood in the urine as well as pain in the lower back on one side, weight loss, loss of appetite, fatigue or anaemia.” “South Africans must become proactive when it comes to their health. Should you experience any symptoms or have a history of kidney cancer in your family it is advisable to contact your healthcare professional to ensure a possible early diagnosis and treatment to battle this disease,” Ndungane-Tlakula said.