 Cape Town - The Western Cape provincial legislature's standing committee on social development has expressed concern that two months on, it was still not clear when temporary disability grant (TDG) beneficiaries would receive their money from the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa). Sassa general manager Sibusiso Nhlangothi said about 31 458 clients were waiting to be assessed by doctors while 16 569 had been assessed. Nhlangothi was briefing the committee on progress Sassa had made to address the backlog of applications for temporary grants in the province. About 53 000 clients were affected when the grant lapsed at the end of last year. “We have increased or extended the operating hours (to deal with) disability grants on weekdays and Saturdays through implementation of overtime for staff at local offices. The department has secured additional doctors and venues … We are pleased with progress, and the 10-point plan that was introduced is being implemented,” said Nhlangothi. However, Sassa was experiencing the challenge of offices not operating at capacity due to Covid-19, he said. The grant was only paid from the date of application. Committee member Ricardo Mackenzie said the process of clients being assessed by doctors and the doctor's report then being assessed by Sassa officials to decide if a person would receive a grant or not would cause frustration. Clients needed to be informed of all these processes before being assessed. “I sincerely hope clear communication is made to applicants after they complete assessments with doctors, that there is no guarantee that they will get the grant just because they have seen the doctor. If a letter is not sent to them then an SMS should explain (the situation),” Mackenzie said. Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez said she was deeply concerned about the number of client applications that had been processed to date, when compared with the number of clients still requiring assessment. “Although thousands of vulnerable people still require assessments to be conducted, Sassa reiterated that all TDG grant recipients will be assessed before Sassa's deadline of March 31.” Fernandez said she would continue to meet Sassa officials fortnightly to receive updates on progress made. Black Sash national advocacy manager Hoodah Abrahams-Fayker said Sassa's intention to complete medical reassessments by March 31 was commendable. However, The Black Sash's community-based monitoring revealed some beneficiaries were only scheduled to see doctors for medical reassessments in April and May. “Sassa knew well in advance that the temporary disability grants would lapse and should have put measures in place to avert a crisis. Black Sash urges Sassa to provide social relief of distress (grants) to beneficiaries on a monthly basis until their re-application process is finalised,” said Abrahams-Fayker. Cape Times