Cape Town – With dam levels consistently dropping, Eastern Cape farmers are grappling with an unprecedented crisis endangering the citrus harvest, for those dependent on the Kouga Dam in particular. Known for its citrus and dairy farming, the Gamtoos River Valley is buckling under a years-long drought, bringing farmers to their knees. Due to the dwindling reserves, the 132 agricultural water users who rely on the dam for irrigation have been able to draw just 20% of their annual water quota since last July. The Kouga Dam is currently at 6.55%, and the Gamtoos Irrigation Board (GIB) has warned water users that it cannot supply water adequately below the 3% water mark. “Kouga Dam has been consistently dropping since it was at just above 50% in September 2018,” the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality said. The municipality had no programmes of assistance it could point to for farmers affected by the drought conditions. GIB chief executive Rienette Colesky said: “This situation endangers the citrus harvest for many farmers who might not be able to water their crops further and who do not have access to alternative sources, such as boreholes. ’’The situation was already dire for our cash crop and dairy farmers from the start of the water year, as a 20% availability of their full water allocations has had a devastating effect on the planting of cash crops and the watering of pastures for dairy farming.” Cattle and citrus farmer in the valley, Tertius Meyer, said some farmers had already used up their water allocations for the 2020/21 water year, which ends in June, leading to their supply from the dam being discontinued. “Some farmers are helping their neighbours. Some are spending a fortune bringing in water in tankers just to keep their orchards alive. One can see the condition of the cattle worsening, as there is very little food for them, forcing farmers to either sell off their livestock or rent grazing in areas with water and move their herds. “As you drive through the valley, you can see the trees are dry. The fruit size will be affected, which means there will be an abundance of smaller fruit this season.” A fellow farmer in the valley, Khaya Katoo, said he had had to drill boreholes to supplement his water supply from the dam. “Our quota will be used up very soon, but we have fruit which needs harvesting. That’s a worry, as it’s hot and the trees need a lot of water.” Port Elizabeth Weather Office spokesperson Garth Sampson said the highest incidence of rain over the dam’s catchment area occurred from March to October. Cape Times