Cape Town – Opposition parties in George say they are still awaiting a comprehensive report on what happened to the R350 million that the municipality invested with Old Mutual. In a recent letter to the municipal manager, penned by Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners (PBI) leader on behalf of some councillors, Virgil Gericke said they needed the report so as to give feedback to their communities. “I wish to draw your attention to the following issues, one being the investment of R350 million made on behalf of the municipality by the former chief financial officer (CFO). ’’I have repeatedly asked what happened to the investment, and whether it's still invested with Old Mutual, and if not, where are the funds now and where have they been shifted to? “If the funds are invested with another bank or institution, can Council be provided with an investment certificate, and in the event that the agreement has been terminated with Old Mutual and the funds have been paid into the account of the municipality, where are those funds currently, or for which projects were the funds applied?” Gericke said, adding that they have not received a response. “There is an obligation on the executive to report. Nothing has been reported as yet. The municipal manager must report in terms of  section 71 of the Municipal Finance Management Act.  The mayor must exercise oversight and ensure that reporting is done to Council,” he said. But the George Municipality said the questions were put forward by the councillors at the February 2021 Ordinary Council Meeting and relevant responses were given. Municipal spokesperson Chantèl Edwards-Klose said: “The investment is no longer with Old Mutual as of 2018, and has been invested at a number of institutions. The finance department reports on a monthly basis in the Section 71 report regarding cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.” On questions on what those institutions were,  Edwards-Klose said the investments were with “various institutions, in compliance with legislation”. This is as SACP district secretary Langa Langa said the municipality must account. “There is no way we can fold our hands and stand back while we can see the push back and the hiding of information from the opposition parties in the George council,” he said. ANC Chief Whip in the George municipality Nomawethu Jantjies-Gushman alleged the money was invested “illegally” and in a “corrupt manner”, adding that they were yet to receive a report to what happened on the money and its interest. An Old Mutual spokesperson said yesterday they ceased managing the investments in question in early 2018 and  returned “all investments in full to the municipality”. Local Government MEC Anton Bredell said the CFO involved in this matter was dismissed by the municipality. “The Council is still dealing with the matter. The Provincial Minister is closely monitoring the matter as well,” he said. Cape Times