RARE blood disorder, aplastic anaemia, claims the lives of 70% of patients who are left untreated annually, according to US-based St Jude’s Children’s Research Hospital. While the percentage of lives claimed due to the illness is high, there are several treatment options including stem-cell transfusions to mitigate this. It is for this reason that the Sunflower Fund partnered by DKMS are appealing to South Africans to be the hope that these patients need by registering to become stem-cell donors this Aplastic Anaemia Aplastic Day, commemorated annually on March 4. Sunflower Fund chief executive Alana James said: “Many people lose their lives if this illness is left untreated and we believe that this comes down to two issues. Firstly for patients suffering from severe aplastic anaemia, a treatment option is a stem-cell transplant, however, there are limited donors and finding a match is 1 in 100 000. We would therefore like to encourage South Africans to become donors. Secondly, because the disease is rare and often unspoken about, it is critical to spread awareness about the disease and that’s why key health days such as Aplastic Anaemia Aplastic Day is so important.” Aplastic anaemia is when one’s bone marrow does not produce enough blood cells, in many instances it affects all three blood cells including white, red and platelets. There are various causes for aplastic anaemia however, the most common ones include, hereditary factors, exposure to radiation or chemotherapy, immune disorders or exposure to chemicals or drugs. James urged people presenting with symptoms to go see their healthcare professional. She points out that according to the Hospital, aplastic anaemia symptoms are broken down into three main groups including: 1. Anaemia: This is a deficiency of red cells or of haemoglobin in the blood. Symptoms relating to anaemia include fatigue or dizziness, shortness of breath, heart murmurs, pale skin and headaches. 2. Thrombocytopenia: Is a low number of platelets in the blood. The symptoms of thrombocytopenia include unexplained or easy bruising or red/purple dots (petechiae), abnormal bleeding that does not stop easily including nosebleeds and bleeding gums. 3. Neutropenia: This is when one has an abnormally low count of a type of white blood cells. Symptoms of neutropenia include frequent fevers, infections that last a long time and mouth ulcers. James said while severe cases are treated mainly through stem-cell transfusions, there are other options that are available to patients including blood transfusions, immunosuppressive medications and supportive medications which are given to reduce the risk of aplastic anaemia and to help manage the symptoms of the illness. “We once again ask that all eligible members of the public register to become donors and to also help spread awareness about rare blood disorders such as aplastic anaemia. Together we can help fight illnesses such as these to give patients a second chance at life,” James said. Those between the ages of 18-55 and in general good health can register to become a stem-cell donor. For more information or to register visit www.sunflowerfund.org or call 0800 12 10 82. 