Cape Town - A plan to establish a command centre, to cover Table Mountain National Parks (TMNP) 26 000 hectares for the next 15 years, is in the works. Otch Otto has been appointed South African National Parks (SANParks) project development manager, to establish a mission area command control, and communications centre, for the execution of sustainable asset protection, safety and security in TMNP. The retired police colonel said that critical intervention is required to stop criminal activities in the park, to establish safe tourism and efficient conservation practice. He said that they are designing a concept for operations and raising the necessary funding for the project. “I’m busy writing a concept which is about 300 or 400 pages, going through all the issues to be covered for the mandate. “To take TMNP to total coverage for the next 15 years, I’m sitting with the current budget of $144 million (R2.1 billion) of donor money. Our income has dropped by (around) 90%, even the previous budget wasn’t enough. Now the challenge is that the poaching syndicates get better money, bigger boats, and smarter people with more experience.” TMNP is divided into three management areas – the northern area from Signal Hill to Newlands in the Cecelia area, the central area from Constantia to a part of Noordhoek, and the southern area which covers some of Noordhoek, and further up to Cape Point. North area manager Wana Bacela said TMNP had 128 full-time rangers, of which 56 had the task of physically seeing to the safety and security of the visitors, and the others oversee infrastructure maintenance and biodiversity. “The major problem is alien vegetation and the safety and security of both the visitors and rangers because there are many footpaths that people allow access into the area, sometimes without even being seen, as the area has two cameras. “Rangers face a lot of challenges, including those that affect their emotional and mental well-being – like when they have to be actively involved in locating missing persons. This is why we have trauma counselling because these incidents can be emotionally taxing.” He added that SANParks had a good working relationship with law enforcement and police, with dedicated teams patrolling Signal Hill and Tafelberg Road four or five times, and then proceeding to other areas. City's law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said: “The tourism law enforcement unit, a joint initiative between the City and the Western Cape government, has 10 members who patrol tourist spots daily. This includes the TMNP. They patrol twice daily and this is beefed up on weekends.” 