Cape Town – The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa’s (Prasa) brand-new national security intervention, to increase protection of railway infrastructure, will be rolled out first in the Western Cape today. More than R100 million has been budgeted for the People’s Responsibility to Protect Project (PR2P), which was officially launched yesterday at the Langa train station, by Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula and the new Prasa board. The security initiative, that will run for a year, includes ordinary citizens who have volunteered to work with law enforcement officers and existing security guards to protect railway infrastructure. About 40 volunteers will start working today, along the Cape Town to Langa route. A total of 1 500 police reservists will be deployed and trained, across all 46 Prasa corridors, but the long distance train corridors will exclusively make use of the existing Railway Police contingent. Eighty military veterans will also be deployed in these 46 corridors. The primary focus will be on the 16 functional corridors as the first phase of the implementation process – the project has five phases. “The project elevates the stakeholder’s responsibility in protecting public assets, in respect of both Prasa and Transnet rail infrastructure, rail reserves and network, as well as the prevention of crime in the rail environment,” said Mbalula. “The focus of the intervention seeks to manage these downward spirals, resulting from rampant criminality through the implementation of crime prevention strategies, working with communities and stakeholders. “Our efforts to restore the service and deploy the new trains require the kind of partnership we are launching today, with all stakeholders. We have begun the process of introducing the new trains in various corridors. Protecting these assets is a collective responsibility that we must all shoulder,” said Mbalula. He said the project will also create opportunities for women and youth-owned cooperatives in areas such as cleaning of stations, and the construction and maintenance of stations. Khayelitsha community activist Maleki Mbonde said: “We have endorsed this project, as it has brought job opportunities to our communities. This will assist to ensure that trains are back, especially along the central line, so that our children can utilise them when going to school. ’’We agree that Prasa and the government needs residents to fight criminal elements because it also affects them.” Cape Times  