Cape Town – The school career of a Strandfontein pupil, Erin O’Connor, changed dramatically four years ago after she was diagnosed with a rare kidney cancer. By the time Erin O’Connor was in matric at South Peninsula High School last year, she was left with one kidney and had gone through chemotherapy, which she described as the worst experience. Despite being more at-risk during the Covid-19 pandemic than her fellow classmates, O’Connor made no excuses and attended every class and exam. She was honoured with a Special Ministerial Award yesterday at the National Senior Certificate awards, held at Premier Alan Winde’s Leeuwenhof residence. O’Connor achieved three distinctions, in business studies, maths literacy and life orientation. The 18-year-old has been accepted to study for a bachelor in business studies degree at UWC. “I was diagnosed with kidney cancer and had a tumour removed in grade 8. I had to drop out of school because my health quickly deteriorated, and I was in and out of hospital all the time. “I had the traumatic experience of seeing people losing the battle. When I returned to school in April 2019, I was determined to work hard and not feel sorry for myself,” she said. Due to chemotherapy, O’Connor lost her eyebrows and the hair on her head, affecting her confidence. “I lost so much weight because I would go a week without eating. It was overwhelming as I had a lot of obstacles. From grade 10 to 12 I had to accept that my life had been changed forever, because I still have to go and see a kidney specialist and undergo scans. The cancer has also affected my ovary.” “During Covid-19 I was terrified, not only for my health, but also for my parents, who also both have co-morbidities. “I was terrified that the cancer could return and what would happen if someone at the house tested positive for the virus. I think the academic year was stressful and tough for every matriculant. But look at where we are today. I’m looking forward to the next journey,” she said. Also honoured with the Special Ministerial Award was Thandolwethu Klaas from Weston Sekondere Skool. In Grade 1 his home language was Xhosa, but he was enrolled in an Afrikaans class because other classes were full. Klaas struggled through the years and even had to repeat a class. In grade 10 and 11 he had to divide his time and take care of his two younger siblings as his mother was seriously ill. However, his hard work paid off and he passed all his subjects with distinctions. WCED Deputy Director-General in Curriculum and Assessment Management Peter Beets said the two pupils exemplify what perseverance means, and have a bright future ahead of them. Cape Times