Johannesburg/Cape Town - The rapid declaration of a national state of disaster, more than a week after the first case of Covid-19, allowed the country to quickly respond to the pandemic. This was the view of epidemiologist and co-chairperson of the ministerial advisory committee Professor Salim Karim Abdool yesterday, during his preliminary recount of the first anniversary of the report of the first patient with Covid-19 in the country last year. The government has been criticised for prematurely securing one million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, ignoring a directive by the World Health Organization (WHO) for all countries to receive the Covax vaccines at the same time, but Karim said this was done to avoid legal action. The DA was one of the parties that lodged a legal action against President Cyril Ramaphosa in the North Gauteng High Court in January. The party initially served Ramaphosa with a letter of demand, asking him to outline his roll-out plan for the vaccines within seven days or face legal action. Ramaphosa failed to comply and the DA approached the high court for a formal litigation but withdrew the legal action after Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced the pending arrival of the AstraZeneca vaccine, after the country entered into a bilateral deal with the Indian government. “The South African government is one of the countries that jumped the queue and entered into bilaterals despite orders by WHO for all countries to receive Covax vaccines at the same time. Was it worth it? I don’t know,” Karim said. The world-renowned epidemiologist said that the country took the decision to secure the doses due to massive internal political pressure. He said the pressure was stepped up when some provinces said they would secure their own vaccines and wanted to treat their provincial boundaries as a “little island”. Karim did not specify which province he was referring to. “The World Health Organization ordered that all the countries must receive 20% of the vaccines at the same time but we chose to sacrifice that,” Karim said. Karim praised the government for its decision to put the country under level 5 lockdown in March last year. He said the decision, including the ban on the sale of alcohol, had significantly reduced infections and the strain on health-care facilities. Karim, however, conceded that he was initially opposed to the ban on the sale of cigarettes and alcohol. Meanwhile, specifics around the predicted third wave of Covid-19 infections is difficult to determine at this stage, health officials in the province told the Provincial Legislature’s ad hoc committee on Covid-19 at a briefing yesterday. “Regarding a third wave, there is uncertainty in terms of whether or when or how it’s going to be. It becomes difficult because of the variant, there might be some more mutations with regard to the virus itself. It’s also difficult (to predict) because of vaccinations,” said Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo. Premier Alan Winde said the province would focus on containment and mitigation in preparation for a third wave. “Between peaks, our focus must be on containment and ensuring that clusters of cases, related to a specific place or event, do not result in widespread community transmission.” As of 1pm yesterday, the province had recorded a total of 275 878 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 261 384 recoveries. A total of 15 295 vaccines had been administered by 5pm on Wednesday. The province had also recorded 18 additional deaths, bringing the total number of Covid-19 related deaths to 11 240. Political Bureau and Cape Times