Cape Town - Hospitals in the province reported little to no trauma cases related to violence and car crashes over New Year’s Eve allowing them to better manage the increasing load of Covid-19 patients. “Many of our facilities’ emergency centres reported single-digit trauma cases on New Years’ Eve. Trauma cases are usually very time-consuming and labour-intensive. This reduction helped us to cope with the significant load of Covid-19 cases in our hospitals. We are thankful to the public for heeding our call. It underlines the importance of behaviour change in dealing with the impact of the pandemic on our health service,” health spokesperson Marika Champion said. Victoria Hospital and Karl Bremer recorded no trauma-related patients, with Khayelitsha District Hospital and New Somerset recording four cases each, Tygerberg 12 and Groote Schuur, six. By Sunday, the province had recorded a total of 216 038 Covid-19 infections, with 39 735 active cases and 7 190 deaths had been reported. “The overall numbers are still rising. Although there is a tapering off of positive test results, hospital admissions and reported deaths are still rising. We extend heartfelt condolences to loved ones and families. Behind each number is a sad story of loss for families and loved ones,” Champion said. By New Year’s Eve the pandemic had claimed the lives of 71 public health workers in the province. “We would like to thank all clinicians, nurses, all hospital staff, emergency staff, forensic pathology staff, as well as admin support staff, many of whom worked through all the public holidays, for their Herculean effort during the last week. Each contribution helps us to render the critical life-saving service to our patients,”  Provincial Head of Health, Dr Keith Cloete, said. Groote Schuur hospital currently has 12 wards for Covid-19 patients while Tygerberg has eight dedicated wards. While admissions continue to rise, the Garden Route has shown a decline in cases. As part of the Western Cape’s recruitment drive, a total of 79 healthcare workers as well as a new intake of community service doctors start today. Residents have been advised that the next two weeks are crucial in containing the second wave spread and urged to observe physical distancing, good ventilation and hygiene. nicola.daniels@inl.co.za Cape Times