Cape Town - More than 45 000 exam markers are set to start marking matric exam scripts across the country today. They will be working in strict Covid-19 compliant centres until January 22 when they are expected to finish marking about 14 million scripts. The Basic Education Department said 181 marking centres, including schools, had been identified and prepared for the process. The results were expected to be released on February 23, compared to previous years when they were announced in early January. Basic Education director-general (DG) Mathanzima Mweli said the department was worried about the impact the Covid-19 pandemic would have on both the 2020 National Senior Certificate (NSC) exam and the 2021 academic year due to the number of teachers who had died. Last week, 14 teachers were reported to have died from Covid-19 within a 24-hour period. Thirty-two deaths were reported the previous week. Mweli said the immediate impact of this would be felt in the marking of matric exam papers and on teaching when schools reopen for the new academic year on January 27. “The cardinal message from the president's speech is strict adherence to the basic health and safety protocols. In the marking centres we have increased the number of monitors and we will visit all the centres to monitor compliance. We have made health and safety a priority for all staff in the marking centres,” said Mweli. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga published a new set of directions and protocols for the marking of the scripts. This includes adhering to health and hygiene protocols, strict screening procedures at the entrance of every marking centre and that marking personnel who display any symptoms listed in the Covid-19 protocol be retained in a temporary isolation room, until they have been advised by a health professional. “Markers that have been tested positive must not report to a marking centre and a failure to disclose their health status will constitute misconduct. “Arrangements will be made for health practitioners to be on site or within easy reach of the marking centre so as to support and provide advice or deal with any emergency that may arise,” said Motshekga. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Millicent Merton said 2 964 people will mark 1 000 000 exam scripts at various marking centres in the province. “The WCED is working towards ensuring that all health and safety measures under the adjusted alert level 3 regulations are met. We acknowledge and are deeply appreciative of the massive contribution of all markers in ensuring that we have a safe marking session,” said Merton. National Professional Teachers Organisation of SA (Naptosa) executive director Basil Manuel said: “We have agreed with the ministry and the DG that there will be strict protocols in place as published already. “When our people get there, we want to see that every marking centre is strictly adhering to those protocols. “We are worried that a number of people designated to mark may have actually passed away, or may be ill. Some people may be fearful about arriving and don't arrive, so we are worried that there will be gaps.” Manuel said a greater problem would come if people became ill during the marking session. “Getting in replacements is not so easy. We urge markers who have applied to actually pitch up to mark. Markers … are our own front-line workers because marking centres are densely populated.” okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za Cape Times