Cape Town - ANC stalwart and veteran activist, Dawood “Abba” Khan will be remembered for his selfless work for the betterment of his community and as an inspiration to those whose lives he touched. Ninety-year-old Khan, a former ward councillor and community activist, passed away peacefully at his home of natural causes on Friday. Convenor for the ANC in the province, Lerumo Kalako said they would always remember, respect, and appreciate Khan for being involved in arranging the motorcade that took Nelson Mandela from Victor Verster Prison in Paarl on the day of his release from 27 years’ incarceration on 11 February 1990. “Comrade Khan served as an ANC Councillor in the City of Cape Town, and during his career of selfless community service was detained in the 1960s, chairperson of the Red Cross Children’s Hospital Board, and also a founding member of the Muslim Association of the Red Cross Children’s Hospital...We will never forget his role, as well as that of the Western Cape Traders Association,” said Kalako. Khan, who had lived in Kensington for about sixty years, had celebrated his 90th birthday during the lockdown in June last year. Khan, a former shopkeeper, was arrested in the 1960s and detained for 180 days without trial at Caledon Square police station. Kensington community activist Dawood Esack said he would remember Khan as a phenomenal individual who was very principled and a “stickler for time”. “I met him as a young man in 1966 while at school. Khan had also won election for the Maitland ward during 1976 and was the first non-white person to win candidacy. Mr Khan was a phenomenal individual that cared for the poor and underprivileged and something that always stood out for me was that he always spoke out for what he believed in. This is a tremendous loss for the family as well as the community. “He was a stickler for time and if you said a meeting started at 8pm, he would give five minutes for people to arrive. I always made sure I was there long before Mr Khan got there,” Esack recounted. Esack said Khan was very active during his retirement years at the Hidayatul Islam mosque and primary school. Khan was the recipient of the Mayor’s Medal during 2010 where he was hailed for his  passion for social welfare and was described as the “the spirit of Ubuntu personified”. During his lifetime, Khan had served as vice-chairperson of the Kensington-Factreton Residents Association, Cape Town City Councillor, founder chairperson of the Western Cape Traders Association, founder of the Muslim Association for Red Cross Children’s Hospital, and chairperson of the Red Cross Children’s Hospital Board and Brooklyn Chest Hospital. Kensington CPF chairperson Cheslyn Steenberg said Khan continued to help his community in various ways including helping the elderly to the hospital for their appointments and for excursions for residents. “I believe as a community we have lost a giant and a gentle soul. He was a very firm person but he lived for the community. He was like the godfather to many and for that we will miss him,” said Steenberg. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times