Cape Town - The City of Cape Town says it is monitoring Kataza while it  is awaiting the outcome of an application to CapeNature to have the baboon translocated to a rehabilitation centre in Limpopo. The City said every effort was being made to keep the male chacma baboon SK11, colloquially known as Kataza, out of the urban area as far possible while a solution is being found. The Cape of Good Hope SPCA confirmed at its Tuesday meeting with the City that should the situation not improve, they would submit an application to CapeNature, as the mandated authority in terms of the Nature Conservation Ordinance, for a permit to have SK11 translocated to a rehabilitation centre where he can be released back into the wild once he has been rehabilitated. “SK11 has showed signs of trying to make his way to Tokai over the past few days, but unfortunately he still has not reached the Tokai troop as we anticipated, nor has he integrated with his natal troop since his return to the Kommetjie area on November 12, 2020. “As agreed with the Cape of Good Hope SPCA on January 5, an application for a permit to have SK11 translocated to a rehabilitation centre in the Limpopo province will now proceed,” the City said in a statement. The City said it did not oppose the application to relocate SK11 to an appropriate rehabilitation facility. “SK11 has been moving between the Kommetjie, Ocean View, Da Gama Park and Capri areas for the past eight weeks. Since  November 12, there have been numerous accounts of SK11 entering occupied houses, raiding bins and, on one occasion, he aggressively pursued a person for food. “Over the past two weeks, he has taken up residence at the Long Beach Mall area in Noordhoek, then he started making his way to Da Gama and Tokai,” the City said. The City is awaiting the outcome of CapeNature’s assessment. “In the meantime, the City, relevant stakeholders and interested parties continue to monitor SK11 and every effort is being made to keep him out of the urban areas as far as possible. This is a great challenge, however, given that SK11 is a habitual raider and has become very familiar with humans and the urban environment.” The City thanked all role-players, interested parties and residents for their ongoing support over the past few months. * Residents are encouraged to please phone the Baboon Hotline number 071 588 6540 for assistance. Cape Argus