Cape Town - A police officer from Hillview is going beyond the call of duty and feeding hundreds of needy children in Lavender Hill in pursuit to keep them away from the crime she has witnessed in her decade-long career. A 32-year-old Michelle Davids has been digging into into her own pocket to provide a warm meal to children in the community three days a week. “We first serve the kids and then whatever is left we give to the adults. Whatever we give comes from my pocket and my husband and friends who are able to give,” she said. The mother of two registered the Michelle Davids Foundation in March before the lockdown last year to help aid disadvantaged children on the Cape Flats. “I am a police officer, so during my 11 years of service I have  seen how people suffer to a point that they commit a crime to feed their kids, or kids taking matters into their hands by stealing to ensure the siblings are fed because the parents are perhaps on drugs,” she said. “At the moment we don't have a sponsor,  everything comes from our pockets or from donations friends make. My mom and one of the girls staying in the informal settlement does most of the cooking and does this without expecting any payment. We are also in need of another 100litre pot so that one goes for the kids and one goes for the adults when we feed,” Davids said of her challenges. Davids said apart from the feeding scheme they would like to have soccer sessions with the kids. “My husband and I would like to do soccer sessions with the kids but we don't have a proper field within the community, and mostly we would like to advise parent's how to deal with kids who are involved in gangsterism or drugs,” she said. Cape Town freelance photographer Brenton Geach, who has worked with her, said: “Michelle lives directly opposite a very impoverished area next to Seawinds. She, with help from her husband and her mother have not stopped feeding since last year April and without her help a lot of people would go without food. She desperately needs help as a lot of the time it’s digging into her own pocket . I have been going into the area at least twice a week which is also plagued by gang shootings, I have never ever seen or heard of any government help in the way of food parcels or anything else - without Michelle there is nothing for these people.” To get in touch with Davids contact her on  081 779 1525. siphokazi.vuso@inl.co.za Cape Times