Cape Town - A UK family’s holiday in Cape Town turned tragic when the wheelchair-bound wife was involved in an accident while on a City Dial-a-Ride service and ended up in hospital, where she died. Although 61-year-old Valerie Davids suffered bilateral femur fractures due to the accident, the cause of death was allegedly due to severe Covid-19 pneumonia, according to New Somerset Hospital. However Davids’s sister Sylvia Davids and husband Sydney Parclo, 72, have refuted this, claiming she had tested negative a week before the accident and had no symptoms. They have since called for a thorough investigation as they suspect the Dial-a-Ride driver may have been drunk, leading to the accident. They also alleged negligence by the hospital. The Davids’ sister and Parclo had arrived in the city on December 17 to spend their holidays with their cousins in Pelican Park. It was about 12 years since they last visited their relatives and on December 4 the three had plans to tour the Waterfront. “Since my sister is wheelchair-bound we used Dial-a-Ride. On the way to the Waterfront the bus driver first hit the mirror of a stationary taxi. They managed to talk it out as there was no major damage on either vehicle. About 15 minutes to our destination we suddenly crashed into an electrical poll and a tree. The bus driver claimed he was making way for another vehicle, but there was no other vehicle. Hence we believe he might have been drunk.” Davids also alleged that they discovered the driver had failed to strap Valerie in with a safety belt, which resulted in her falling hard during the accident. She broke her right thigh and her other thigh was shattered. “All three of us were injured beside the driver and we were admitted to hospital.” Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said the circumstances leading to an accident where an e-hailing vehicle was involved at the Waterfront were being investigated. “A case of reckless and or negligent driving has been opened and injured people were admitted to hospital. No one has been arrested,” said Traut. Davids and Parclo were discharged the same day while Valerie stayed overnight. “The hospital informed us on Tuesday that Valerie was going to be operated on on Wednesday due to her injuries. My sister had called us complaining of being in pain and felt she was being neglected because nothing was being done. Wednesday morning we were called and informed that her breathing was down over night and the operation would be postponed to January 11.  Late that evening the hospital called again to say Valerie passed away due to pneumonia as a result of Covid-19,” she said. “We don’t understand when the Covid test was done and why we were not told about the results if they came out early. We were just told on Tuesday that she could die if the operation was unsuccessful, meaning they were never positive. We want answers from the City on their Dial-a-Ride driver and from the hospital. We are devastated. We will go back to the UK with her ashes,” said Davis. The City’s Mayoral committee member for transport Felicity Purchase said the City received a report of the incident. However, it was “a private hire which the operator is contractually entitled to, therefore not a registered user.” Calls to HG Travelling Services appointed by the City went unanswered. Southern/Western Sub-structure health department spokesperson Natalie Watlington said medical reports showed Davids was hypoxic on arrival at the Emergency Centre and a Covid-19 swab was taken and returned positive. “The medical team was able to confirm a Covid-19 pneumonia diagnosis. This is also in line with our testing criteria, to test for the virus in all patients needing surgery. The treating medical team decided that, given the severity of the Covid-19 pneumonia, she would be at very high risk for surgery, so this was delayed. “Sadly, due to the severity of her Covid-related condition she passed away the next day. At no stage was she not given oxygen via a re-breather as we have not run out of oxygen and the hospital has sufficient supply,” Watlington said. She said the department had a central dashboard whereby hospitals could monitor and manage their usage. “As part of our contingency plans to ensure facilities have sufficient supply of oxygen. We are also receiving additional oxygen daily via tankers to augment our existing supply.” okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za Cape Times