Cape Town – The Cape Peninsula Organisation for the Aged (CPOA) said it was prepared to donate the buildings of three Cape Flats old-age homes to other NGOs to take over following its decision to cease operations at the facilities. The affected homes are Nerina Place in Bishop Lavis, Lilyhaven in Bonteheuwel and Oakhaven in Heideveld. Communities in these neighbourhoods on Monday came together to protest the closure affecting 300 residents, as they said they had not been consulted and desperately needed the services in their areas. “Nerina Place in Bishop Lavis will be the first home to be closed. All 88 residents from Nerina Place will be accommodated in alternative CPOA welfare homes where there are beds available. “In order to ensure a smooth transition, a maximum number of five residents will be transferred at a time, allowing for companionship as they move into their new home. The residents have been advised of the transfer and have been fully prepared to move into new premises. “We expect this process will take around two months, ensuring time for the residents to settle in,” CPOA said in a statement. Following Nerina Place, the next home for closure would be Lilyhaven Place in Bonteheuwel, where the same process would be followed, and ultimately Oakhaven Place in Heideveld. It is envisaged that the process will be completed by the end of the year. “As CPOA is prepared to donate the buildings to other NGOs, various community leaders have made contact and are engaged in discussions to take over the vacant buildings. ’’CPOA has the best interests of the elderly at heart and guarantees that every resident will have a place to reside where they will continue to enjoy nutritious meals and receive the quality of care they are accustomed to,” the organisation said. For the communities, Wesley Moodley said they would be submitting an alternative proposal. “We will be submitting a proposal to the CPOA, because what will happen to our elderly without frail care? ’’We were not happy with the way this decision came about, because as a community we are affected but were not consulted. “As a community, we are willing to take over the responsibility and manage these facilities because we do not want these buildings re-purposed. There is a huge need for frail care. We cannot afford to lose these services,” Moodley said. Some proposals have already been submitted, the CPOA said. Interested parties can send their proposals to info@cpoa.org.za Cape Times