Cape Town - The family of a Stage 4 cancer patient, allegedly choked to death by another patient, has accused New Somerset Hospital management and staff of keeping them in the dark about the events leading to the attack on Christmas. Cliff Hartzenberg’s alleged killer, believed to be a psychiatric patient, appeared in court earlier this week on a murder charge. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the murder case was being investigated by Sea Point police. “According to reports, a patient assaulted another patient. The victim died on the scene. A 48-year-old man was arrested on January 6, and he appeared in court on January 11,” said Rwexana. The murder accused and Hartzenberg were both patients in a male medical ward of 22 beds. Cliff’s sister, Denishia Hartzenberg, said the heartache of losing her only sibling  worsened when they were met by tight-lipped medical staff who had no answers for the family. But the Provincial health department said the head of nursing and quality manager met with the family to debrief and offer condolences. In addition, the specialist also contacted the family, according to the department. Denishia said: “We received the call on Christmas Day just after 8pm that my brother died. The person who had called me said that one of the patients was found on my brother’s chest, strangling him. “But other than that, no further information was shared. I went to the hospital as early as possible the next morning, before 5am, to ensure I would still find the night staff on duty who could assist with details.When I got there, I was told they can’t tell me anything as they were given legal instructions. “There is video footage of the incident, and witness statements were given to police, but nobody has yet spoken to us as a family at all. “Not even a debriefing, and it feels as if they have no remorse, but at the end of the day, somebody must be held accountable. We were promised by the matron that a meeting would take place with the hospital HR department on December 28 at 8am, but to this day, nothing has materialised,” said Hartzenberg. She said the family reported the matter to medical boards as well as the office of the provincial health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo after attempts to get answers or closure were met by “brick walls”. Mbombo’s office did not respond to requests for comment by deadline. “What frustrates me is that no compensation, apology or explanation has been given to the family from the hospital or staff. How do you allow someone to be murdered in your care and not take responsibility? Yes, he was ill, but that did not give someone else the right to end his life. My mother lost her only son, and I lost my only brother,” said Hartzenberg. She said her brother, a father of two, would be dearly missed and Christmas would never be the same again for the family. “Although we are not yet set on taking legal action, as my mother prefers, we still deserve answers. This has been very hard on the family, and I want my mother especially to have closure,” said Hartzenberg. Provincial health department spokesperson, Natalie Watlington, said Cliff “died after an assault by another patient”. The hospital had reported the matter to police, she said. “The results of the post-mortem are awaited to see if death was the result of the assault and not his primary condition. This matter is at moment at forensics and a police matter, and we are also replying to the family on the issues they have raised via the Office of Health Standards. Therefore, and for patient confidentiality, we are not able to divulge any further information in the public domain,” said Watlington. Enquiries to the Office of Health Standards Compliance were unanswered at deadline. Attempts to get comment from the National Prosecuting Authority and clerk of the court were unsuccessful. Cape Times