Cape Town - Preparations are under way for rail services to resume between Cape Town and Langa stations next month. According to Western Cape Metrorail manager Raymond Maseko most of the infrastructure rehabilitation to get trains back on the tracks, has been completed. The corridor that passes through Mutual station has been suspended since November 2019, with the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) collaborating with the provincial department of transport and public works (DTPW), and the City to restore the rail network in the province. “All the necessary safety tests need to be completed but we are expecting to see this line operating in the first few weeks of February. “The technical team has already used a testing train because we have to satisfy the Railway Safety Regulator due to the line being closed for a couple months. We cannot open it,” said Maseko. He added that part of getting the line up and running again was the removal of vegetation which had built up over the months. DTPW has made R10 million available and entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Prasa for vegetation control in rail reserves, yards and infrastructure assets within the region. “We are grateful for this partnership with the provincial department of transport. “When we talked about being in the fire season the department came to our aid. “The department offered to assist as Prasa rail lines are close to communities and due to lockdown we couldn’t maintain the network. ’’We have now received additional manpower as about 80 people were employed to help remove vegetation and not in this line only but other lines too,” said Maseko. Transport MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela said land occupiers erecting shacks on top of train lines after the Langa station and in Khayelitsha, was a major problem. “The biggest crisis is the families of more than 7 500 that decided to invade the lines. “As local and national governments we are trying to deal with that issue because the building of a wall cannot be done with those people there. “Plans are at an advanced stage and a meeting with all stakeholders including human settlements is expected on Friday.” Madikizela said a syndicate was behind people building shacks on railway lines, and was allegedly being paid rent to by families to stay on the lines. “A site needs to be secured so that the relocation of the families begin.” Cape Times