Cape Town - Employees of a provincial Human Settlement Department contractor were violently attacked sustaining bodily fractures and were locked up in a site container after failing to meet the extortion demands by gangs. In another incident three officials were also robbed while implementing a project,  and a stakeholder relations employee's vehicle was set on fire in Delft. In a separate incident in Forest Village where gangs demanded extortion money from contractors, a contractor for part of portion 9 suffered physical harm and the business suffered financially. The department has permanently halted a number construction projects due to extortion demands to their contractors, impacting on delivery of houses to hundreds of beneficiaries who have been waiting to be assisted. This was revealed by Human Settlements MEC Tertius Simmers  in reply to a written question by  ANC’s Mesuli Kama on whether the extortion racket has affected the department in the period 2014 to 2020. Simmers said construction projects in parts of Blue Downs and Kuils River were affected  because of demands for extortion money during this period. “Contracts have stopped permanently. Resumption of works is at varying stages,” the department’s spokesperson Muneera Allie said. “All cases of intimidation and violence against officials and  contractors are reported to the police ... This has had an impact on construction programmes and ultimately the delivery of the houses to the beneficiaries who have been waiting to be assisted,” Allie  said. Kama on Monday said  they have decided to monitor and follow up on this issue. “As the ANC, we had just decided to monitor and follow up on this very important issue when provincial parliament rises. If we don't stop these acts of criminality we will assume being a gangster state. Linked to this is our interest in understanding how the department and provincial government as a whole ensures that these business opportunities benefit local or township economies.” Police spokesperson Colonel Andrè Traut said extortion of businesses and individuals was high on the priority list of the Western Cape police “and frequent operations are conducted by a dedicated operational team deployed specifically for this reason. Our endeavours to curb the scourge have resulted in numerous arrests and confiscations of firearms. These figures could be released at a later stage”. Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele welcomed the arrest of three possibly high-ranking figures of the criminal underworld allegedly linked to an ongoing "extortion racket" of businesses in Cape Town recently, citing it a huge victory in the fight against organised crime. Police have urged the public to report any extortion encounter on their Extortion Hotline 021 466 0011. Cape Times