Cape Town - The family of four-year-old Milani Keke who was mauled to death by two pitbulls in Gugulethu paid their final respects at his funeral service on Sunday. His family  last saw him  alive when he was trying to retrieve a ball that had ended up on their neighbour’s yard when the two pitbulls belonging to the neighbour attacked him. Speaking to the Cape Times last week, his distraught mother Nothemba Keke said she was at home when the incident happened. The family, community members and congregants gathered at the Keke family home on Sunday to pay their tributes. Family spokesperson Mxolisi Keke said little Milani was dearly loved throughout the family. “He was very loving, and he liked talking and joking around. He used to promise his mother that he will be a President one day. Milani loved his friends but mostly his 10-year-old sister. His sister is not eating, she is very sad,” he said. Keke thanked the community for their support. “We buried the child well, we are waiting for the police to update us on what happens next. But our focus now is that the child’s spirit rests,” he said. Gugulethu police have opened a death inquest case for investigation and no arrests have yet been made. The Cape of Good Hope SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham said the two dogs were brought to their care by law enforcement following the incident. “Law enforcement will investigate the matter and make the decision with regards to their future.” Law Enforcement principal Inspector Wayne Dyason said the matter was still in process and no decision has been made yet. Gugulethu Development Forum (GDF) general secretary Vincent Domingo said they met with the family on Sunday to discuss the investigation surrounding the boy’s death. “We agreed that the investigation by the police should be monitored and report should be concluded soon. There's is a need that the mother should go for professional counselling and for the faith-based sector of GDF will visit the mother and comfort the family with prayer's. There needs to be a debate on the keeping of dangerous dog's particularly pitbulls in our townships. There needs to be a engagement with government to have dedicated area's as playgrounds or recreational places for children,” he said. Cape Times