Cape Town - Metro police officers were attacked when a Khayelitsha crowd stoned them while they were arresting a suspect found in possession of drugs, said mayco member for safety and security JP Smith. The two officers, conducting a stop and search patrol in SST Section, Khayelitsha, sustained minor injuries when they apprehended a suspect for the possession of Tik on January 10. Smith said the suspect resisted arrest and called on the residents for help. “Some bystanders started pelting the officers with stones, with both sustaining minor injuries. The patrol vehicle was also damaged. The officers eventually arrested the suspect and managed to get him to the Harare police station, where he was charged with possession of drugs and a dangerous weapon, riotous behaviour, malicious damage to property, and disobeying a lawful instruction,” he said. The increased hostility and violence directed at enforcement and rescue service staff was a grave concern to the City, Smith said. “The very people involved in this latest attack, some of whom filmed the altercation and threatened to post it to social media, are the very people who will need assistance tomorrow or next week, and also the very same people who complain about crime. Yet they see no problem with attacking and alienating the very people who risk their lives daily to create a safer environment for our communities,’ he said. The suspect was one of 55 arrested by metro police officers on charges including the possession of drugs, unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition, and contact crimes. They also issued 4 263 fines during the past week. In Mitchells Plain, on January 11, officers were conducting patrols in Rocklands, when they spotted an individual who appeared nervous when he saw the officers. He gave them permission to carry out a search, and they found a Star pistol and eight rounds of ammunition in his sling bag. The 24-year-old suspect was detained at Mitchells Plain SAPS. Meanwhile, Cape Town traffic services had a quiet week on the roads, with five arrests – three for reckless and negligent driving and two motorists detained on other charges. Officers also impounded two vehicles, 30 cell phones and issued 43 420 fines for  other offences. “It is worth noting the significant drop in drunk driving arrests. Our traffic officers recorded no such arrests in the past week, while our metro police officers recorded only two drunk driving arrests. The very low statistics are directly linked to the current alcohol ban as well as the curfew in place,” Smith said. Cape Times