Cape Town – ’’I live in unbearable conditions... the house I live in has no window. I have to take my child to my neighbours so that he can have a place to sleep.” Klipheuwel single father Mbuleli Mninzi this week spoke to the Cape Times about his plight, living in a wood shack for more than 12 years. The 42-year-old is a shoemaker, but said he has been unable to find steady employment for the past nine years. Klipheuwel is a village of about 2 300 people, 15km north of Durbanville, where Mninzi lives with his 9-year-old son. The boy attends school thanks to the kindness of neighbours. Mninzi said in winter it was unbearable. “You can see inside the house while you are outside. I have to take my child to my neighbours so that he can have a place to sleep. I ask for food from my neighbours,” he said. Mninzi said he last worked at a farm, but was paid irregularly. “I had to quit because on payday they would give me stories and I could not stand that because I have a baby to feed. It's been more than 12 years now being unemployed.” Mninzi said the conditions he lives in have affected his health. “Now I cough because of the dust and the cold rains,” he said. ’’No human being deserves to live in such a place. “When I separated from the mother of the child she took everything, including the grant card, which I don't understand. The card belongs to the child, not to her and the child has to eat. “She never bothered to come and check what the child needs and if the child is surviving. “It was difficult for me to find a school for my child but a lady who lives in the area assisted me in finding a school and organised most of the things by herself,” he said. “I have approached many different people, including the NGOs, for many years for assistance but until today nothing has happened. ’’People would rather build an informal structure for their animal than assist me with the (building) material. The (politicians) assist those they are friends with and they do not care about the rest.” Mninzi's neighbour, Babalwa Mkutshu, said he lived a humble and honest life. “Mbuleli has been living here for many years. His living condition hurts me. ’’I always make sure that I give him a small portion of the grocery almost every month but it is not enough because I also have children. He is a very helpful person. (I have never) heard that he is in trouble,'' Mkutshu said To assist Mninzi, contact his neighbour, Thembinkosi Nofemele, at 083 524 4328. Cape Times