Cape Town - The province is currently experiencing a rapid rise in the  number of Covid-19 cases, and hospitals and other health facilities are under severe pressure. Here are some of handy tips to help keep you safe over the upcoming days and weeks: When, and where can I go for a Covid-19 test? All government clinics and hospitals offer testing for Covid-19. However, you will first be screened (asked questions) to determine whether you meet the test criteria. If you meet the criteria, you will be referred for testing. Depending on testing capacity, some facilities may restrict testing to specific time slots. Who will qualify for a test? In the Cape Town Metro you will only be tested if: –  You are admitted to hospital and have coronavirus symptoms –  You are over the age of 45 and have coronavirus symptoms (in rural districts all people with symptoms may be tested should facilities have capacity to do so) –  You are of any age, have coronavirus symptoms, and have a chronic condition such as diabetes, TB, HIV, kidney disease, hypertension, chronic lung disease on treatment, and cancer on treatment –  You live in a care or old age home and have coronavirus symptoms –  You are a health worker and have coronavirus symptoms *Testing for travel purposes is not done at any Western Cape government health clinic or hospital. How long will it take to get my results? Expect a turnaround time of 48-72 hours. You and your household should isolate until you receive your test results. Do not go to the shop, visit other people, or go to the clinic to ask for your results. You will receive a phone call or SMS with your results. How must I isolate? You must isolate if you have symptoms, if you tested positive or if you were in close contact with someone who has symptoms or tested positive. This means staying in a separate room from everyone else at home. Do not leave your house until you have completed your isolation period. Do not go out or have visitors. If you have been in close contact with someone, let them know you tested positive so that they can go into quarantine. –  Mild symptoms: isolate for 10 days after your symptoms started –  Covid-19-positive but no symptoms: isolate for 10 days after you were tested –  Covid-19 symptoms but do not qualify for a test: isolate for 10 days after your symptoms started –  Ongoing symptoms: sometimes you can experience symptoms for much longer than your 10 days of isolation. It may take some time to feel well again and you may experience some chest discomfort and a degree of breathlessness. You can stop isolating after 10 days since your symptoms started (if you isolated at home without needing hospitalisation) If you cannot breathe, go to a hospital’s emergency centre or call an ambulance on 10177. What if I can’t isolate or quarantine at home? You can use a free government facility. Call your clinic or the hotline on 080 928 4102 (toll-free) for more information. What is a close contact? Someone you have been in contact with for more than 15 minutes, closer than 1.5m, without wearing a mask. When must I go to a hospital’s emergency centre? Only go to a hospital’s emergency centre if it is an emergency. If you struggle to breathe, have chest pain, lose consciousness, or experience confusion, you must go the hospital’s emergency centre or call an ambulance on 10177. I am referred to a hospital, what should I expect and what is allowed? Most facilities allow patients to bring their own cellphone; chargers. Bring basic toiletries (soap, wash cloth, toothbrush, toothpaste) if you can. They do not allow food clothes and bedding to be delivered. Visits at facilities are not allowed under Covid-19 restrictions. Please try and be patient with staff who are doing their best to reassure concerned family members. Cape Times