Cape Town - Firefighters have discovered the burnt body of a Strand resident following a fire on Monday night. The body of a 19-year-old was found among debris after the fire was extinguished in Nomzamo, said the City’s Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson, Jermaine Carelse. “The City’s Fire and Rescue Services was alerted to the fire in Simon Close at about 11.22pm, and when Strand’s fire crew arrived on the scene, the officer in charge found a single structure had been destroyed in the blaze. “Further investigation led to the discovery of the body of an adult male among the debris. Medical staff certified the deceased and handed the scene to the SAPS,” said Carelse. SAPS spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a death inquest case was under investigation. It is unclear what caused the fire. It came after three Kalkfontein families, one of them a 60-year-old pensioner, were looking to rebuild their lives after all their belongings were razed in a fire. The fire had destroyed the families homes at the weekend, leaving them with only the clothes on their backs. Kalkfontein community activist and worker, Peter Hoorniet, said residents had rallied to assist the families, consisting of nine people, from Hester Street. “The priority at the moment is to get their structures back up again. So far we have asked the community to come onboard with donations and this has been coming in nicely, with clothing and non-perishable foods. But this has to be stored in safekeeping for the families at the moment as they do not have anywhere to keep it yet. “Other residents have, in the meantime, offered accommodation to the affected families while we wait to get their structures back up. That is what we are mainly focussed on at the moment; to get them back into their homes again and living back with their families. We have raised about R1 000 so far, which will go towards buying materials to rebuild their homes,” said Hoorniet. Anyone wishing to assist can  contact Hoorniet on 081 386 4777. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times 