Cape Town - A local doctor has started a post-viral fatigue syndrome (PVFS) clinic as a community offering. Dr Elizabeth Murray, an oncologist’s intend to soon change it to a complete multidisciplinary clinic to assist Covid-19 patients and others who experience symptoms for more than 28 days after diagnosis. Her journey with postviral fatigue syndrome started after being diagnosed with swine flu in 2009. “I was working very hard. I didn't take enough leave when I had the flu and I didn't know it was swine flu,” she said. Murray said as soon as she had a holiday the PVFS hit her entire body. She saw several doctors with no success. “I am an expert doctor here as most would previously not accept a diagnosis of prolonged PVFS and admit to knowing nothing about managing it. The nicest did not label patients as malingerers but many sent them to psychiatrists when they were psychiatrically normal.” After doing research and with the help of a physiotherapist, she started off at 40% of what she was able to do on the road to recovery. “We moved my bed near the bathroom door and every two days I added two steps, that’s how strict I was. It was really awful. Some people get brain fog when they are tired, some are in bed for life. I am still 60% disabled and I have to take days off,” Murray said. She said PVFS was usually triggered by a virus or any trauma and it was a physical illness with psychological implications. Symptoms include but are not limited to extreme exhaustion, absolute exhaustion from walking, going to the toilet or crying, as well as headaches and brain fog. She said treatment involved immediately going back to less than half of what you can do comfortably and taking a few extra steps a day, supervised by a physiotherapist if you can. Aqua therapy, not-weight bearing exercises and correct sleep were also part of treatment. “Very important is the sooner you start treatment the more successful it will be. The longer you wait the longer it may take to recover,” Murray said. Covid-19 survivor Claudia Williams, 39,  of Brentwood Park said since recovering six months ago, her life has never been the same. “Speaking from my own experience, I think after Covid you don’t become your old self again. I get constant headaches and I sometimes struggle to breath. The body aches are still there and I now think that is something that will never go away because it’s been six months since I had Covid but nothing has changed. Some days I am fine and some days I am not. ,” said Williams. Speaking on the subject, specialist in Occupational Medicine at Tygerberg Hospital, Dr Jack Meintjies said they did not have the picture yet of Covid-19’s long term effect. “However, we do see a number of cases that have a prolonged recovery period.   It is not possible to say at this early stage whether this represents a prolonged recovery period (even though not infectious to others anymore), or whether it represents ‘permanent damage’ caused by the virus.” Murray can be reached at 021 794 6418 or elizabethmurray@vox.co.za nicola.daniels@inl.co.za siphokazi.vuso@inl.co.za Cape Times