Cape Town – The LGBTQ+ community has slammed remarks made by controversial podcaster Macgyver Mukwevho, popularly known as MacG, about trans people as “trans-prejudice and hateful”. In a segment from his “Podcast and Chill” show, Mukwevho and his co-hosts, Sol Phenduka and the Ghost Lady discuss Siv Ngesi's recent debut of his drag persona, Sivanna. Phenduka refers to transwomen as “she-male“and acknowledges that it's a problematic term, but then later refers to transwomen as a ”women with a d***”, as the hosts laugh. Mukwevho says he “can't keep up” when it comes to the trans identity and the hosts move the conversation to celebrities who have allegedly dated transgender women. Old Mutual has since announced its decision to terminate their relationship with Mukwevho with immediate effect. “Old Mutual has seen the discussion that took place on MacG's podcast. As a responsible business that fully respects the rights of everyone, we have have decided to terminate the relationship with MacG with immediate effect. We distance ourselves from the harmful commentary against the LGBTQI+ community and humanity at large. “To say the least, MacG's commentary was both ignorant and insensitive, clearly showing that much education needs to happen, especially in a country where people continue to be ostracised, killed, abused and raped for being who they are,” Old Mutual said in a statement. Ngesi told the Cape Times yesterday that he called out the video on social media and for the comments to be reported. “I'm not the biggest fan of cancel culture, these two young men were wrong and I feel like they should be educated and learn what they did and why they were wrong,” he said. Transmale Greyson Thela from the IAM organisation welcomed Old Mutual's decision. “MacG as well as Sols comments are completely unacceptable, intolerable and dehumanising for many trans and gender diverse persons. The rationalisation of trans bodies is consistently oversexualised as the misconception is that your attraction to another is determined by sexual organs or the body you present, not attraction. The clear distinction between sexual orientation and gender identity needs to be amplified,” he said. Sonke Gender Justice, co-eExecutive director Bafana Khumalo said transphobic comments were unacceptable. “Transphobic comments are ... intended to discriminate. It is even more unacceptable to make jokes and speak light on these issues in a context where there is a lot of transphobic attitude and even violence against trans communities. We applaud the diligent stance taken by Old Mutual. It sends a clear message that bigotry is not to be tolerated in a democratic state. This is about the lives of fellow citizens,” he said. Sharon Cox of Triangle Project said the transprejudice remarks were nothing short of hateful. “The transprejudice remarks made by MacG and laughed at and added to by Sol Phenduka is nothing short of hateful. “It is behaviour such as this, which starts out as comments, that has the potential, and sadly, the reality of leading to violence, which many times results in death. There is nothing funny or entertaining about this,” she said. Phenduka did not respond to questions yesterday. Mukwevho could not be reached for comment. Cape Times