Cape Town - High School sweethearts Cedric Esterhuizen and Maureen Esterhuizen who recently celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary have been remembered as the epitome of love with an unshakable faith. The couple from Fairways, both aged 72, died last week, hours apart, after battling with Covid-19 pneumonia at Melomed Gatesville Hospital. Their devastated son Cedric said he and his three siblings were just planning how they would inform their mother that her husband had died when they received a call that she too had died “When my parents were admitted to hospital the same day on December 31, my mother was worse than my dad. She went straight to the ICU Covid ward. We spent our New Year anxious and praying for them to recover. The next few days my dad was stable and his oxygen levels drastically increased while my mother’s condition worsened. “Last Thursday we received a shocking call from the hospital that dad passed away. Early on Friday morning another call informed us about mom’s death. The pain of losing such important people in your life just hours apart is unimaginable. It has been a highly intense week for us,” he said. The 42-year-old said in December they were celebrating his parents' wedding anniversary and the family were looking forward to Maureen’s birthday next month. Speaking about their love story, he said Cedric met Maureen at Bergriver High School in Wellington where he stayed at a boarding house next to her house. “For dad it was apparently love at first sight. My grandmother sold baked food. My dad was sneaky and supported the business a lot to get close to my mother. He was well mannered and good academically so my grandparents loved him. Hence my grandparents gave him their blessing to date mom. They furthered their education in different places but were still dating. They taught us patience, faith and not to care only for your loved ones but strangers too,” he said. Maureen was a retired nurse at the Grassy Park clinic and Cedric was the former Fairview Primary School principal in Grassy Park. The current Fairview primary head, Keith Meyer, described Cedric as a dedicated leader. “I am this person today because of the influence and leadership skills of Mr Esterhuizen. He was my Grade 6 maths teacher at this school. We always looked forward to his classes because although he was dedicated and he had a sense of humour, very mischievous. “I remember he went to the next class, took the teacher's handbag and hid it in our class. The class was told to keep quiet and not laugh. He assisted the teacher to look for the handbag and showed it later on, after she looked in other classes too. “In 2002 Fairview Primary was named the school of the year for sport because of him,” said Meyer. He also recalled how Cedric assisted the school in 1993 to navigate difficult political changes. The Esterhuizen’s memorial service was held yesterday and their funeral will be on Sunday. Cape Times