Cape Town - Human Settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi promised Masiphumelele fire victims they would have permanent structures built in the next six to eight months. A fire destroyed 1 000 shacks there a week before Christmas and the settlement was declared a local disaster by the National Disaster Management Centre (NDMC)​. Booi, along with Human Settlement  MEC Tertius Simmers visited Masiphumelele for a site inspection yesterday. The most vulnerable victims, including the elderly and disabled, were prioritised in relief efforts. Human Settlement Minister Lindiwe Sisulu did not attend the visit due to unforeseen circumstances. Booi said, “They (residents) will get full equipment to make sure that there is proper infrastructure. We will build a road here and build a fence; it will be a well developed area. “In the next six to eight months, we will be redoing those informal structures. We will be doing the entire area because we don't want to see fire ever again at Masiphumelele and in total, we have about 2 800. Immediately everybody has the shelter.” Booi added, “We will start the process because remember, we will have to put a fence (around) as we don’t want people to encroach as they have done on the other side. Some of the structures that were here we don’t want them to go to the wetland. The structures will have ablutions, clean running water, lounge and a kitchen. The alternative technology building comes in different forms. It's only at the point of us appointing the service providers and it is then we will know which one has what.” Simmers said the City has ensured that each household that has been affected has been registered and issued with a certificate with a tracking number. “The government has declared this place a disaster because it does meet the minimum requirements of the national disaster act.  Ultimately there are due processes that we need to follow. We did receive a letter for the funding specifically for this project. “There are two streams of funding, there is a medium- to long-term budget which is in excess of over R75 million and that is for alternative building technology. For immediate relief for the affected families, we then reprioritise the human settlement development grant that is within the capacity of the provincial government to do that.” He  said on the January 8 just over R32 million was released for the City to erect temporary structures. “The City has ensured that each household that has been affected has been registered on a system. They have been issued with a certificate with a tracking number because many of them were moved from interim structures to the alternative structures for which the construction will start later on in the year,” he said. Beneficiary Thembakazi Samuel said she is happy she had received a temporary house. “For the past weeks it has been difficult because we had no place to sleep and we were helped by churches for accommodation and there were other NGOs that provided us with food and clothing. There were conflicts with the community members and committee members regarding who must first get a house and people who were registered on the previous list,” said Samuel. Cape Times