Cape Town - Agriculture, Land Reform, and Rural Development Minister Thoko Didiza has called for the farming sector to look at the issue of transportation for employees, after a 30-year-old farmworker was killed in a crash on Monday. The woman was among 37 farmworkers being transported on the back of a 4-ton truck when the driver lost control of the vehicle in heavy rain and crashed. Western Cape traffic department spokesperson  Jandré Bakker said 14 people were injured in the incident. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Worcester police had opened a case of culpable homicide. Didiza said she was shocked to learn of the fatal incident. “The death of one farmworker is one too many and we need to avoid such accidents at all costs, by looking at how to better their transport conditions. “We call on the law enforcement agencies to thoroughly investigate the cause of the accident. Heartfelt and sincere condolences to the bereaved families, and I wish a speedy recovery to all the injured,” said Didiza. Last year her department assisted with the funeral arrangements for six farmworkers who died in a truck crash. An oncoming truck driver, travelling along the N1 between Touws River and De Doorns, had allegedly fallen asleep behind the wheel, and was suspected to have veered into the wrong lane, colliding with the truck carrying the farmworkers. The Agricultural, Food, Fishing and Retail Industry Workers’ Union (Afriwu) said they were “disgusted” that farmers were still allowed to transport workers on open trucks without any safety measures in place to protect them. Afriwu general secretary Gafieldien Benjamin said the union was calling on government to enact legislation that would  afford farmworkers the same protections other  passengers enjoyed. “We have seen over the years how farmworkers are killed while being transported on open trucks as a result of either unsafe transit measures or reckless truck drivers. “We need to show that the lives of farmworkers are as valued as those of any other person entering any vehicle. Our government must now show their commitment to farmworkers and (the) protection of the poor and vulnerable,” Benjamin said. He also urged the provincial government to support the families of the deceased and injured. Transport MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela urged truck drivers and the drivers of vehicles transporting essential service workers to make sure that the combined weight of their passengers did not exceed 50% of their vehicle’s total  carrying capacity. “Our thoughts go out to the family, friends and colleagues of the deceased and I wish the injured a speedy recovery. “Where an employer arranges transport for workers performing essential services, such as farmworkers, he/she must ensure that no more than 50% of the licensed capacity of the vehicle or vessel is exceeded. All directions in respect of hygienic conditions and the limitation of exposure to persons with Covid-19 (must be) adhered to,” said Madikizela. okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za Cape Times