Cape Town – Cornelia Scheepers, maternal grandmother of slain toddler Orderick Lucas, said she twice refused to take the child into her care after his mother, Davidene Lucas, brought him to her with ailments. Scheepers continued her testimony and cross-examination in the Western Cape High Court yesterday. A friend of Davidene’s, Melvin Volkwyn, has pleaded not guilty to murdering Orderick. The one-year-old boy’s body was found in a stormwater drain near Scheepers’s house on April 1. Scheepers said once when Davidene brought him to her, Orderick was dressed in trousers, but with no nappy and a rash on his buttocks. “She came to me with Orderick. He had pants on but no nappy and the pants was full of faeces. “I scolded her and told her to take the child and go to the hospital with him. “I said that I would not take him because when I gave him to her he was not in such a condition.” She testified that in the search for Orderick at the end of March, Davidene would wake up screaming. “During that week we were looking for Orderick she would wake up crying in the middle of the night and said, ‘Orderick, Mammie is jammer vir wat Mammie gedoen het’ (Orderick, Mommy is sorry for what Mommy has done).’ “I would then ask her not to go on like that because she would rip off my curtains and I had to sit next to her and calm her down.” Scheepers testified that despite not trusting her drug-abusing daughter “because she steals”, she insisted Davidene and Volkwyn sleep at her Wittebol Close home in Melton Rose after they reported Orderick missing on March 25. She said she did this as she was “afraid that Davidene and Melvin would run away” because neither of them could say where Orderick was. Volkwyn appeared to be shocked by this statement. During cross-examination, Scheepers wiped away a tear after it was put to her by the defence that it could be possible that something happened to Orderick while he was in Davidene’s care which led to his death. The matter continues today. Cape Times