Cape Town – The City says it will be appealing a scathing labour-related judgment in favour of an employee found to have been unfairly demoted. The City was this week slammed for its apparent belief in a “servant and master” relationship when it comes to employees, and was ordered to reinstate the unfairly demoted employee and pay him R40 000. SA Local Government Bargaining Council Commissioner Thuthuzela Ndzombane found the City had committed unfair labour practice in directing a City directorate manager to report to a director as opposed to an executive director, and described the City's consultative process on the changes as a “sham”. Yesterday, City spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said: “The City disagrees with this finding and will be taking it on review.” He added that details about the appeal were being worked out. Employed by the City in 2017 as a manager, the employee reported directly to the executive director, Craig Kesson. In July 2019, his reporting line was changed to report to director Gillian Kenhardt, a head of department. In his evidence, Kesson said he decided to make changes to reduce the number of direct reports to him. Despite the employee raising a number of concerns, the changes took effect in August 2019. The employee said the decision resulted in the reduction or diminishing of his duties and function, and had a negative impact on his status, dignity and career growth, and Ndzombane agreed. Representing the employee for Bagraims Attorneys, Nicole Lee said they were delighted by the successful outcome of the matter. “As an employee, it is not easy taking on a large employer like the City. It is also all-too-often quickly assumed that large employers with specialised legal/employee relations departments ensure compliance with the LRA's (Labour Relations Act's) provisions. We therefore commend the commissioner for seeing through the sham that the so-called consultative process really was,” Lee said. Advocate Lynette Myburgh for Bagraims Attorneys added that employees are people worthy of respect. “Employers need to show that respect by consulting with them before making changes to their terms of employment, in a sincere and respectful way. ’’We trust that the City will see the commissioner's award in this light,” Myburgh said. The reinstatement is effective on Tuesday. Cape Times