 Cape Town – Slain toddler Orderick Lucas's biological father broke down in the Western Cape High Court as he took to the witness stand in the continuation of his son's murder trial yesterday. Kounkou Dziendelet, partner of Orderick's mother, Davidene Lucas, became emotional as he revisited details relating to the disappearance and eventual finding of one-year-old Orderick's little body. Melvin Volkwyn is accused of the murder of the Eerste River toddler, whose body was found in a stormwater drain in Wittebol Street, Melton Rose. The discovery was made eight days after he was reported missing. Volkwyn has pleaded not guilty. “From the first day that Orderick was lost, until today, I am not okay,” said Dziendelet, speaking in French. Asked by State prosecutor Morne Julius what made him feel “not okay”, Dziendelet said: “Because that is my son. That's my blood.” Dziendelet, who is also the biological father of the couple's seven-year-old twins and their five-month-old daughter, said he and Lucas have been in a relationship since 2009. According to Dziendelet, despite a 2019 court order giving guardianship and custody to Lucas's parents, Cornelia and Devan Scheepers, Cornelia had on occasion told Lucas to take the children when “she must go somewhere”, and Cornelia told the couple to pay her R450 every week for taking care of the children in her guardianship. “We would always just go visit the children at Aunt Connie's house, but when Aunt Connie had somewhere to go, she would ask us to look after the children. “Davidene would remind her about the court order, then Aunt Connie would get very angry,” said Dziendelet. According to Dziendelet, on the weekend that Orderick went missing, Cornelia had again called the couple to fetch the children as she was to have a birthday celebration. Speaking in French, Dziendelet said: “I can't remember that clearly, but that weekend, Aunt Connie had a birthday and she didn't want children around. “I can't remember exactly who brought the children to us but I think it was the grandpa.” According to Dziendelet, the day that he last saw Orderick was March 24, just before Lucas had got into a fight with a group of people. “I saw the group of people fighting with one person, and when I looked closer, I saw Davidene. “She managed to break free from the group. She had started running from the group and came towards me. “I asked her what's going on and she didn't answer. She ran past me and was crying,” said Dziendelet. Dziendelet said he was told Orderick was given to murder accused Volkwyn while Lucas attended to the confrontation and fight about a stolen cellphone. The case continues today. Cape Times