Cape Town - A group of Khoisan activists have appealed to Western Cape provincial authorities to have access to land in Tokai to conduct a cleansing ceremony, after they were denied entry to the property at the weekend. The Samekoms Khoisan organisation said they were prohibited after writing a letter to property agent Muster Property Services, appealing to use the site on Saturday. They have now written to Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais and Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz asking them to intervene and allow them access to the ancestral land, to pay respects to their ancestors on special cultural occasions. “The piece of land in Tokai was actually a kraal, a princess kraal at Elephant’s Eye, it was the indigenous people's space. The big issue here is all the public land in Constantia is being managed by property agents. “(Government) made decisions that these agents can use the land and sell it off to whoever needs it, but the Khoisan people are not okay with this because it is our ancestral land and Muster Property Services which has only been established in 2012 are handling all of the public land on behalf of the government,” said Khoisan princess Belinda Petersen. “We are  saying enough is enough and hands off our ancestral land. If land must be given back, it must be given back to the Khoi people – we are still doing ceremonies and rituals. If they going to sell off land to other people it will be restricted. This is unacceptable,” she said. Muster Property Services referred questions to the Department of Transport and Public Works. Department spokesperson Jandré Bakker said: “Access was denied to a grouping of people to a property under our custodianship as it would negatively impact on service delivery at the property.” Stacy McLean, the spokesperson for Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais, said the MEC would engage with the relevant stakeholders once the details of the matter had been confirmed. Cayla Murray, the spokesperson for Safety and Security MEC Albert Fritz, said the MEC had declined to comment.