Cape Town – Two Southern Cape men are expected in court for allegedly raping minors in separate incidents at the weekend, while a third has been charged with sexual assault. Police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie said a 23-year-old suspect was arrested for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in George on Sunday, while in a separate incident on Saturday, a 25-year-old suspect was arrested after he allegedly raped a 13-year-old girl in Knysna. “A 17-year-old girl was visiting friends at their home situated in Zone 3 in Thembalethu when she was allegedly approached by the suspect, who requested to talk to her outside,” Pojie said. “When they got outside, he allegedly dragged her to his residence situated in Ngcakani Street in Zone 2, where he undressed and raped her. After her ordeal, she walked home, during which a patrol van found her and asked her why she was crying. “She then divulged what had allegedly transpired at the residence of the suspect. The members immediately followed up on her version, and went to search for the suspect at his house, where he was subsequently arrested,” he said. Of the incident on Saturday, Pojie said: “At approximately 3pm the 13-year-old was walking down a street from her grandmother's house in Ethembeni, Knysna, when she allegedly met the suspect who apparently asked her to go and buy him a cooldrink at the shop nearby. ’’When she returned with the cooldrink, he allegedly interrogated her about her sexuality, took her into his house (and) undressed and raped her,” Pojie said. In Plettenberg Bay, a 31-year-old suspect was arrested on a charge of sexual assault after he allegedly indecently assaulted a 14-year-old girl at a spaza shop. “It is alleged that the suspect, who is a shop assistant, touched the breast of the 14-year-old victim. She then reported the incident to her mother, who reported it to Plettenberg Bay police,” Pojie said. Anti-gender-based violence organisation Ilitha Labantu's spokesperson, Siyabulela Monakali, said these incidents were a grim reminder of the prevalence of violence against women and girls in society. We strongly appeal to our justice system to impose harsh sentences on all perpetrators of sexual violence,” Monakali said. “We also appeal to communities to play their part in helping to root out this scourge wherever it manifests; we need to work together to ensure that our homes and communities are free of all forms of violence perpetrated on women and girls. ’’It is very disheartening to see the frequency at which these incidents take place, as it is a daily occurrence.” Cape Times