Cape Town – Insurance Claims Africa (ICA) says it believes businesses in the tourism and hospitality sector are a step closer to having their claims resolved fairly, as Santam abandoned most of its intended appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal, save for the length of the indemnity period. The Western Cape High Court in November found that the insurance company was liable to pay for business interruption losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown, ordering it to pay 18 months’ worth of losses to Ma-Afrika Hotels and Stellenbosch Kitchen. Santam and other insurers had initially refuted settling customers’ business interruptions claims, citing the government’s imposed lockdown, and not Covid-19, as the cause of the losses suffered by business, a stance which resulted in the public loss adjustment firm representing more than 850 claimants in court. ICA said that Santam had made a number of material concessions in its court papers, including dropping its demand that Ma-Afrika’s Covid-19 claim be settled on a three-month take-it-or-leave-it basis. ICA chief executive Ryan Woolley said: “While it’s taken a lot of pressure, time, money and effort to get here, we are extremely pleased that our claimants are closer to a fair and reasonable resolution to their business interruption claims.” In a statement, ICA said that Santam had agreed to consider converting its settlement offer to an interim payment of three months, leaving the balance of the 18-month policy to be dealt with at its appeal on the indemnity period as well as pay for the costs of the three counsel on Ma-Afrika’s side. Last month Santam extended the contingent business interruption claims settlement process to all commercial policies. Its group chief executive, Lizé Lambrechts, said: “We are pleased to have reached a point where we have a level of legal certainty that enables us to proceed with the assessment and settlement of all valid Contingent Business Interruption (CBI) claims as quickly as possible.” Lambrechts said that the matter regarding the indemnity period was relevant only to the hospitality and leisure division and represented a minority of the total CBI policies at Santam. The high court is expected to hear Santam’s appeal concerning the indemnity period today. Cape Times