Cape Town – In yet another major shake-up to the province’s police top brass, Western Cape police commissioner Yolisa Mokgabudi has been appointed acting Divisional Commissioner for Crime Intelligence and will be replaced by Thembisile Patekile with immediate effect. Mokgabudi’s transfer comes less than two years after she took over as the province's top cop in December 2019. This was amid previous allegations of her predecessor Khombinkosi Jula’s apparent failure to bring down the level of crime in the province at the time. Mokgabudi will replace Mzwandile Tiyo. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said: “I can confirm that General Mokgabudi has been appointed to act as the Divisional Commissioner, Crime Intelligence, until further notice and General Patekile has been appointed to act as the Provincial Commissioner of the Western Cape, also until further notice.” When asked for the reasons for the change in leadership, Naidoo would only say changes “constantly happen within the SAPS for operational reasons”. Police Minister Bheki Cele's spokesperson, Lirandzu Themba, said Cele has been kept abreast with the latest move. According to reports, a circular dated February 15 announced the changes in the Crime Intelligence cluster, which has been plagued by controversy. These include an internal investigation into the assassination of Anti-Gang Unit section commander Charl Kinnear, and the events leading to it months before. The latest move in the police management has been met with mixed reactions from police unions, with the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) saying they would be willing to work the new management, while the SA Police and Allied Workers Union said Pathekile was once in charge of the province and “no changes were seen to alleviate issues of racial discrimination and gang violence”. Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said it has always been their interest to support any effort to see a united leadership within the police and other departments they work with. “Part of unifying and building a stronger criminal justice cluster is ensuring stability and co-ordination,” he said. SA Police and Allied Workers Union president Bonga Makuliwe said Pathekile was once in charge of the province and they had little confidence in him. “We want change in this province, and a modern strategy of fighting crime. Comradeship, nepotism, cronyism and ignoring academia is the biggest problem confronting the police service of now. ’’Mokgabudi failed dismally to boost the morale and improve service delivery in the province; now she is taken to national level she has no plans in improving the morale and keeping the experienced members with qualifications to her units.” Makuliwe said the union was more worried about “brain drain SAPS that is like an internship programme where people come in, study and leave the service”. “Recognising qualifications can transform police service from this loyalty policing that is embedded with corruption to ethical policing members that will say ‘I'm promoted because I qualify’ not because someone from the management looked after me,” said Makuliwe. Attempts to reach Mokgabudi for comment yesterday were unsuccessful. Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz said: “My working relationship with (Matakata) has been marked by openness and transparency and I thank her for her service. I hope to enjoy a similar working relationship with the incoming acting provincial commissioner Patekile. ’’I look forward to working closely with Patekile on issues related to safety in the province and will have an introductory meeting with him next week. I am in full support of the recruitment process of the new provincial commissioner.” Cape Times