Cape Town – The DA has been accused of blocking service delivery after its councillors walked out during a Budget Adjustment council meeting in the Theewaterskloof Municipality. This was after an ANC Speaker was elected to take charge of proceedings. ANC’s Derrick Appel said: “Theewaterskloof council should have approved an Adjustment Budget to ensure ongoing service delivery. However, due to the absence of the DA Speaker who was ill, and a DA PR councillor, a new Speaker was elected to take charge of the meeting. ’’The ANC, ICOSA, SRWP and EFF nominated ANC Chief Whip Monwabisi Raymond Nongxaza as Speaker, while the DA proposed councillor Martie Koegelenberg. ’’Councillor Nongxaza was elected. After his election as new Speaker, the arrogant DA walked out with their tails between their legs, thereby bringing this important council meeting to an abrupt end.” But the DA said yesterday there was an incorrect interpretation of the rules by one of the officials in council, and the party could not associate itself with that interpretation. “The DA decided to break the quorum to prevent further possible inaccurate decision making,” said DA chairperson in the East Region, Tertuis Simmers. Appel said the walk out by mayor Christelle Vosloo and her DA councillors will have a major impact on service delivery in the municipality, as the Adjustment Budget could not be approved. “The mayor and her councillors were afraid they would be removed and lose their huge financial benefits and status. We want to warn the mayor and her cronies that what happened is just the beginning of what lies ahead. ’’For 15 years, you underestimated the poorest of the poor and took them for granted. “Now we say enough is enough. We shall overcome. Our voters are rising up and are ready to punish the DA at the polls. ’’It is clear to us that the DA does not understand or respect democratic processes, as well as have no respect for the black electorate. Change is coming in Theewaterskloof. The electorate will drive that change,” he said. Vosloo referred questions to the municipal spokesperson. Theewaterskloof municipal spokesperson Hugo Geldenhuys said the adjustment budget will be tabled to Council again next week. “This situation will not adversely impact Theewaterskloof Municipality’s activities or service delivery to the public. The meeting will comply with the requirements of the Municipal Financial Management Act (MFMA) in terms of the tabling and council approval of the adjustment budget. ’’The legal requirements stipulate that the adjustment budget should be approved by February 28, 2021, but, if it is not possible, the municipality has an option to apply for an extension with the relevant provincial minister. The application for extension has already been sent off to the minister.” siphokazi.vuso@inl.co.za Cape Times