Cape Town – Table Mountain National Park rangers have been hailed for apprehending suspects at the weekend who were believed to have been terrorising the public near Kleinplaas dam. According to SANParks spokesperson Lauren Clayton, the rangers from the southern section planned and executed the successful operation near the Kleinplaas dam area on Saturday in response to crime incidents experienced in the last two weeks. “Two suspects were detained and handed to SAPS, who arrested them for possession of drugs and dangerous weapons. Rangers were placed on standby for rapid response which resulted in this success. “This operation would also not have been possible without the Simon's Town SAPS, who responded as soon as they were called,” said Clayton. She said both suspects matched the description given by the victims from the last three incidents. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the suspects, aged 23 and 37,  would appear in court once they were charged, but were not linked to other crimes. “The suspects were charged for possession of dangerous weapons and possession of drugs. At this stage the suspects are not linked to any other crimes,” she said. The arrest comes as a Lobby group, Friends of Table Mountain (FOTM), and hikers have been calling for increased security on Table Mountain National Park trails. FOTM chairperson Andy Davies said mountain users remained at risk as SANParks was failing to address safety and security concerns, following an attack in Tafelberg Road, Kleinplaas; a mugging on Signal Hill; and an armed robbery in lower Tokai in December last year. An initiative to tackle hot spots created by stakeholders, a private security provider and a corporate funder, which was put to SANParks, was created in 2019. “Many excellent solutions have been put forward over the years and it’s not for want of stakeholders attempting to assist SANParks. Attempts to take the project further were stonewalled, and the stakeholders have told us that they don’t believe SANParks ever had any intent of signing an agreement,” said Davies. Cape Times