Cape Town – A 63-year-old Matzikama farmer accused of opening fire on two people – one of his workers and his worker’s partner – is expected to appear in court today on two charges of attempted murder. The incident has sparked outrage from farming activists, who allege that racism was at the root of the incident. The alleged shooting happened at Tuinkloof Trawal, in Klawer, along the N7, last week. SAPS spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said the police are investigating two cases of attempted murder after they were called out at 9.15pm on Thursday. “A 63-year-old man was arrested and a rifle was handed in as an exhibit. The arrested suspect is due to appear in the Klawer Magistrate’s Court on the mentioned charges,” said Van Wyk. Attempts to get comment from the farmer were unsuccessful by deadline. The director of the Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation, Billy Claasen, said they welcomed the arrest and opposed bail. “The farmer went to the house of the farmworker and (allegedly) fired shots at him and his girlfriend. He also allegedly made racial remarks to the couple. “This is unacceptable and we asked the police to desist from giving this farmer bail. He must remain in custody where he can make use of his rights and lodge a formal bail application,” said Claasen. The incident happened after the accused farmer apparently asked a fellow farmer to employ one of his (the accused’s) farmworkers to transport grapes, he said. Claasen said after permission was granted, the accused farmer confronted the farmworker and things got violent. “(The accused farmer) went to Riverside Farm and confronted the victim and made racist allegations and said, ‘Ek skiet jou sommer vrek (I will shoot and kill you).’ Then he went to his bakkie and fetched a rifle and fired one shot next to (the victim),” said Claasen. At this point during the altercation, the victim’s girlfriend came out and he “verbally insulted her” and also fired a shot next to her, Claasen said. “This clearly shows the circumstances and conditions farmworkers still live and work in in the wine industry of Olifantsrivier Valley. “It also shows that nothing has happened to the living conditions of farmworkers after the high-profile case of Martin Visser. Visser was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in 2018 for the murder of a seasonal farmworker, Adam Pieterse, in 2015.” . Claasen said he would be visiting the community today. Cape Times