Cape Town – The Western Cape has recorded 79 more Covid-19-related deaths overnight, bringing the total toll to 10 860 in the province. The lifting of the alcohol ban has also been linked to a continued surge in trauma cases following the province’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responding to nearly 5 000 incidents at the weekend. The province has 5 488 total active cases. A total of 1 464 are in hospital, with 320 in ICU or high care. EMS spokesperson Deanna Bessick said a total of 4 782 incidents were responded to, a drop by 428 compared to last weekend. “The top 10 incident types for the past weekend included weapon assault (764), non-cardiac pain (715), obstetric complaints (382), respiratory complaints (381), physical assault (245), neurological complaints (237), abdominal complaints (228), vomiting/diarrhoea (194), musculo-skeletal complaints (179) and accidental domestic injuries (163),” Bessick said. Most patients were transported to the Tygerberg, Worcester and Groote Schuur hospitals. “There were 107 incidents in red-zone areas and 111 transport-related incidents. “The EMS Rescue team responded to nine search-and-rescue incidents, which occurred in McGregor, Kirstenbosch National Botanical Gardens, Llandudno, Table Mountain, Westlake and Bosmanskloof,” she said. In a statement recently, Premier Alan Winde said he was disappointed at the spike in trauma admissions. “I once again appeal to residents to drink responsibly. Excessive, and irresponsible alcohol use contributes significantly to trauma such as car accidents, injuries and inter-personal violence. “As a province, we are working to put in place smart, targeted interventions but we require citizens to play their part too,” he said. Anti-GBV organisation Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said the decision to unban alcohol was not well thought out by the government “because alcohol contributes immensely to many social ills, and we have seen an increase in the number of domestic violence cases since the decision was made”. Anti-GBV activist and survivor Chalmane Kruger echoed these sentiments, adding that alcohol was an “additional result and we should not conveniently forget about substance abuse”. “Drugs are another serious problem in many households of our communities. When I look at weapon assault incidents of 764, I clearly see job losses and financial issues which increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I wish more could be done to the fraud and economic embezzlements within our state departments. And if the government can give more attention to our social matters and spread those monies there, to get prevention measures in place rather than only ban alcohol and hope with fingers crossed magic will happen,” she said. Cape Times