Cape Town – A Bishop Lavis family needs help to cover the medical costs of their 10-month-old baby who needs a life-saving heart operation. Shanaas and Shahied Snell said they were initially told by a doctor that there was nothing that could be done for their little Aqeefah, who was born in March last year. “We had been told that our baby’s heart was very weak and that her life expectancy was not looking good. After consultations with the doctor, we were basically told that they could not do anything and we just had to bide the time until she would pass away. “Hearing that made us feel broken and it made us feel despondent,” said Shahied. Shahied and Shanaas said when Aqeefah got excited, the circulation of blood throughout her body was not enough. “The problem is with her main artery and the heart. She is not getting enough oxygen and blood circulation,” said Shanaas. But after a family member shared their medical plight on a social media prayer group, hope dawned for the Snell family. “My aunt prayed for Aqeefah and afterwards asked if she could send the request for prayers in their group; we agreed. This is where Ina Pieters heard of us and assisted with finding a doctor at the Heart and Lung Foundation in Sunninghill, Johannesburg,” said Shanaas. Pieters had then reached out to The Good Morning Angels feature show on Jacaranda FM where the couple – who have no medical aid and Shahied being the breadwinner – were assisted with return tickets to Johannesburg and the consultation with a private doctor. “We flew up on Tuesday and had the consultation. We were told that Aqeefah’s operation is an emergency but the doctor said her cardiac condition can definitely be helped but we have to act as soon as possible. ’’We were told that the operation could cost between R300 000 and R500 000 done privately. We desperately need the funds to save our daughter’s life,” said Shahied. Shanaas said taking care of Aqeefah, who is one of four siblings, was a 24/7 job. “We hardly get any sleep because she has to be monitored all the time.” Anyone wishing to assist the family can contact Shanaas Snell on 078 009 6313 or Shahied Snell on 060 469 3813. Cape Times