Cape Town – The family of nursing stalwart Sister Dorothy Elaine Lewis, who became a role model in the nursing fraternity, recalled her last hours filled with smiles. Lewis, 88, died on Sunday morning after she complained about being tired and went to rest. Her 29-year-old granddaughter, Stacy Lewis, said her sudden death has shocked the family as she had not complained about being sick. “We knew this day would come but we did not anticipate it to be so soon. The family was still looking forward to more years to come because she was not that sick. ’’Even on Sunday she woke up and greeted everyone and she was well. After a while she wanted to go to rest because she felt tired. That was it. ’’She passed away peacefully in her home with her loved ones around. Ma will forever be in our hearts; she held the family together,” Stacy said. Messages of condolences have continued to pour in for the family and Lewis's life as a well respected nurse celebrated. Lewis made history when she became the first coloured matron at Groote Schuur Hospital in 1970 after she saw an advert in the Cape Times newspaper and called the hospital. Lewis was hired on the spot, paving the way for generations of her family including her son and daughter-in-law to follow in her footsteps. She also started the hospital crèche which her granddaughter Stacy attended. The Cape Times had the privilege of interviewing her last year during an edition about front-line workers. Lewis retired in 1995 following 25 years of service at the hospital. “I can still recall growing up attending the crèche,” Stacy said. “My father also worked there before retiring last year. People would tell me how they looked up to my grandmother. ’’I never understood that until I was a bit more mature; she was so humble and passionate. People respected her. As the family we are proud of her,” said Stacy. Groote Schuur Hospital head of nursing Aghmat Mohamed said that even though Lewis was retired, her passion for the nursing profession had remained profound. “She was very proud to still refer to herself as a nurse and wanted younger leaders like myself to take nursing to greater heights. ’’The two things that stood out for me was that she was indeed a lady and spoke very eloquently. She was extremely intelligent.” Mohamed said Lewis's experience in health systems was vast. “Lewis's son Adrian is a qualified nurse who I had the privilege of working with. He resigned a few months ago to take care of his mom during her last months. ’’Adrian, like his mom, oozes with passion for our beautiful profession and will always be remembered for that. Lewis was also actively involved in the Benevolent Association at the hospital where she played the role as co-ordinator.” IOL