Cape Town - John Graham Primary in Plumstead has been commended for how well the school management team treats its staff and how skilled the learners are. This was according to the SEA (Schools Evaluation Authority) report, which evaluates how well some schools in the Western Cape are performing. The SEA has released the reports for how well some schools are performing. The SEA independently evaluates Western Cape schools and develops reports which are published for parents and communities to know how well the schools in their areas are performing. The evaluations, which was conducted on 10 and 11 February 2020, provide an independent and external examination of school practices and include recommendations on what should be improved. The schools are assessed on: John Graham Primary According to the SEA report, the schools were rated out of 4 according to the above criteria – 4 being Outstanding, 3 being Good, 2 being Requires Improvement and 1 being Inadequate. John Graham Primary School received 4 for Learner Achievement, 3 for Teaching and Learning, 4 for Behaviour and Safety, 3 for Leadership and Management, 3 for Governance, Parents and Community. Overall performance for the school was rated 3. The report found that the school had sound financial management practices and well-kept records. “Engagement and communication with stakeholders are effective. Learners understand the channels of communication. Parents acknowledge the good academic results, the bridges built between the school and parents, and the follow-up with parents on difficult home situations. “Professional relationships are sound, and the environment is conducive to quality teaching and learning,” the report found. The report highlighted that the school management team (SMT) acted effectively to improve quality teaching and learning throughout the school. “Lesson observations by the SMT are a recent focus area. Its mentorship programme is effective in assisting novice teachers and weekly meetings are held. Grade and subject meetings, regular discussions and using expert teachers in certain areas improve the quality of teaching. “Teachers attend professional development workshops offered by the district office. “In most classes, good use is made of school resources. The SMT discusses and meets staff regularly to ensure that they understand and fulfil their roles and responsibilities in and outside the classroom.” The report went on to emphasise that “it is evident that all staff feel appreciated and that attendance and commitment of staff is excellent“. The learners were also commended for their behaviour and most learners were found to handle numbers and do calculations well – solving problems at the level expected of their age and phase of education. The recommendations that the SEA made were: The full report can be found here: http://seawc.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/School-Evaluation-Report-John-Graham-PS-21-January-2021.pdf Cape Argus