Cape Town - Ten people were killed in a series of shootings across Cape Town at the weekend. The shootings took place in Khayelitsha, Ravensmead and Delft, and the South African Police Service (SAPS) in the Western Cape is under pressure to to find the shooters. In a statement on Friday, police spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa said three people were murdered in Ravensmead. She said the triple murder, as well as a case of attempted murder, was being investigated as by the Anti-Gang Unit (AGU). “Reports from the scene indicate that at 9pm on Friday, Ravensmead police were called to a house in Eureka Estate. “Upon arrival in Fabriek Street, the bodies of two 16-year-old youths and a 45-year-old man were lying outside the house. “A fourth person, aged 18, who was injured in the shooting had already been taken to a medical facility  for treatment. “Reports also indicate suspects in a white vehicle pulled up in front of the residence and fired shots,” Potelwa said. In a separate incident on Friday, police in Delft responded to a shooting in an open field behind Liesbeeck Street, where the body of a 29-year-old man was found. Meanwhile, on Saturday, six people were killed in Khayelitsha. The Western Cape provincial detectives have launched a manhunt for three suspects, Potelwa said. “The investigation follows an incident where the assailants shot and killed five men, seriously wounding two in a shack at the PJS informal settlement on Saturday evening. “The two injured victims were taken to a medical facility where the sixth victim later died. Reports indicate that the victims between the ages of 29 and 36 were inside a friend’s home at the PJS informal settlement when at approximately 7.30pm three armed suspects entered the shack and started shooting. “The deceased men were all from Khayelitsha,” Potelwa said. She said a 72-hour activation plan has been implemented and resources activated. Police are urging anyone with information about any of the shootings to come forward to assist them in their investigations. Residents with information are advised to contact the police on 08600 10111 or use the MySAPS app. Information will be handled in strict confidence. African News Agency (ANA)