Cape Town - While learners are thoroughly engaged at Souci Girls’ High School, the Schools Evaluation Authority (SEA) found that cliques among school’s management team affect the staff. This was revealed in the SEA report which evaluates how well some schools in the Western Cape are performing. The SEA independently evaluates Western Cape schools and develops reports which are published for parents and communities to know how well the schools in their areas are performing. The evaluations, which were conducted between 9 – 10 March 2020, provide an independent and external examination of school practices and include recommendations on what should be improved. The schools are assessed on: Sans Souci Girls’ High School According to the SEA report, the schools were rated out of 4 according to the above criteria – 4 being Outstanding, 3 being Good, 2 being Requires Improvement and 1 being Inadequate. Sans Souci Girls’ High School received 3 for Learner Achievement, 3 for Teaching and Learning, 3 for Behaviour and Safety, 3 for Leadership and Management, 3 for Governance, Parents and Community. Overall performance for the school was rated 3. The report on the school found that in learner interviews and lessons observed, the pupils read, speak, listen and write well. “Many learners volunteer to read in class. However, a few do not read with comprehension. Most learners speak with confidence and have a good command of vocabulary. “The majority of learners follow instructions and generally listen intently. Most learners enjoy the arts and do well in public speaking, debating and drama. Learners handle numbers well. They use calculators and other mathematical software, but many are unable to solve maths problems.” The report states that the differentiation in grades 8 and 9 enables more learners to work at a faster pace and do more challenging tasks. There is also a wide choice of extra- and co-curricular and cultural activities. The report highlighted that in interviews with members of the School Management Team (SMT), it was evident that the vision and mission are not shared effectively. “A few members of the SMT felt that these must be reviewed and updated. The SMT meets to discuss priorities for improvement, but in interviews with members of the SMT, a few felt that they did not have input in the drawing up of the School Improvement Plan (SIP) or strengthening school improvement. “There is insufficient evidence that the SIP is monitored effectively by the SMT. During interviews with the SMT, it was evident that it is not operating in synergy.” SMT members said it would be better if they worked as a unit and in the same direction. The SEA also observed that there are cliques among the SMT, which filters down to the rest of the staff. “Despite these shortcomings, the SMT is currently able to implement initiatives effectively.” The recommendations that the SEA made were: The full report can be found at: http://seawc.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/School-Evaluation-Report-Sans-Souci-Girls-HS-21-January-2021.pdf Cape Argus