Cape Town - Those interested in the call centre sector should apply for the City’s Cape Skills and Employment Accelerator project as applications for the next intake of learners are now open. The City said that through the project, more than 3 000 jobs will be created over the next three years for women and youth in the thriving Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) sector, commonly known as call centres. The City of Cape Town has identified the BPO sector as a catalytic because it is a significant driver of economic growth and job creation and has great potential for future expansion. The project, of which the City is a primary funder, trains unemployed South African youth and women aged 18 to 35 for placement into job opportunities in the BPO sector. Mayco member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management, James Vos, said: “I’m very pleased to announce that applications for the next intake of learners are now open and I encourage all those interested to visit this site: jobs.skillspassportsa.co.za, to apply.” Through the Skills Passport portal, potential employees are provided with an opportunity to complete a series of assessments. Qualifying unemployed youth selected to participate on the programme will enter into a 12-month learnership programme. During this, learners will receive accredited training, a monthly stipend allowance and workplace experience at employer sites in Cape Town. “To ensure that our city competes on the global stage and help us achieve inclusive socio-economic growth, we need to attract investment that leads to job creation. To help in this pursuit, the City continues to invest in skills and training for sectors like BPO,” said Vos. The City’s Enterprise and Investment Department also funds CapeBPO, as a Strategic Business Partner, to help  grow the industry. “By addressing the gap between the demand for trained employees and supply, we aim to build the right conditions to push growth and economic prosperity to all corners of Cape Town,” said Alderman Vos. Cape Argus