Cape Town - The Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (Psira) says it has lodged a criminal complaint with police against a security company providing services to the Saldanha Bay municipality and the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) for operating without being registered. This after Good Party member Sammy Claassen said they were informed by whistleblowers of alleged “wasteful and unlawful” expenditure by the municipality for the services of AMS Black Pearl Security. “We are in possession of emails and written confirmation that this security company who is supplying services to the municipality, schools and other services to clients in the Saldanha Bay area operated without Psira registration, making it a crime and unlawful,” said Claassen. Psira spokesperson Siziwe Zuma said according to their records, AMS Black Pearl Security's registration was withdrawn. “Psira Law Enforcement conducted an investigation (and a) criminal case was duly opened. Consumer notices were also issued to the clients informing them that the business is withdrawn. (A) Code of conduct docket against the owner is registered by our office. The SAPS will deal with the criminal case,” Zuma said. The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) also confirmed that it was made aware of the allegations and had interviewed a complainant. Municipal manager Heinrich Mettler said that the company was assisting the municipality with alarm installation and monitoring services, and the allegations would be investigated. “AMS Black Pearl Security has been assisting Saldanha Bay Municipality with alarm installation and monitoring services since May/June 2018. “We are currently in the process of developing a new term tender for alarm services. Security services, including guards, will be provided by an appointed firm in terms of the security tender, which is currently being evaluated. An appointment will be made soon,” he said. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said that the department was made aware of allegations last week and had asked the district to investigate. “Supply-chain management has no record of business with this company. As schools procure services for security separately, we are investigating as to whether there are schools that use that service. I have no further information at this stage as inquiries are under way,” she said. AMS Black Pearl Security owner Fernando Gomes said he came to know that the company registration had been withdrawn in November when he tried to reinstate it. “The company was registered with Psira in 2017 after I started doing work with the WCED and then the municipality, doing alarms for them. The problem now is when I wanted to reinstate my company I saw that it (the registration) was withdrawn. “The reason it was withdrawn was because it hasn't been paid and the reason for that is the education department didn't pay me my complete invoices after every holiday. WCED and the municipality owe me about R760 000. I (have sent) numerous emails asking the people, when are you going to pay me,” he said. Gomes said in November he had started negotiations with another company to take over the contracts. He said he was not aware of a case against him. The municipality did not respond to further questions by deadline. Police said they would respond to questions this week. Cape Times