Cape Town – Police are investigating the alleged assault of a 52-year-old woman by a security guard in Prince Alfred Hamlet. This after the EFF called for the immediate dismissal and arrest of a Mafoko Security officer after he had allegedly assaulted the woman in January, causing extensive injuries to her left leg. In a statement, the EFF said a security guard had assaulted her in “full public view” after the victim and her two friends had fetched potatoes. “(They) were on their way to fetch potatoes when they came across the Mafoko Securities guards, who chased them and as they ran. One of the ladies fell on the ground and injured herself. ’’Instead of assisting her to get up, one of the security guards who was chasing her started beating her up in the full glare of public view,” the statement read. SAPS spokesperson FC van Wyk said police were investigating a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. “Prince Alfred Hamlet police are investigating an incident where the complainant and friends walked in Prince Alfred Hamlet and she was assaulted by a security guard. ’’According to the complainant, the security guard assaulted her by kicking her left leg and also stepping on it. The complainant was then transported to a nearby hospital with a broken left leg. No arrest has been made as yet.” Director-general at Mafoko Security Lebo Nare said they were aware of the incident and added the company has deployed a number of tactical security officers in and around the Ceres area of the Witzenberg Municipality, “under the strict supervision of law enforcement agencies and only to assist such law enforcement with executing their duties”. “However, in light of the seriousness of the allegations, the company, upon receipt of the allegations, removed the entire shift for that particular day when the incident allegedly took place and has subsequently handed them over to the police for investigations. ’’We wish to place on record that the company is cooperating and is willing to assist SAPS with any and all information available with regard to the alleged incident so that the matter is speedily resolved.” EFF spokesperson Wandile Kasibe said the woman has since been discharged from hospital and was recovering at home. “We have been informed that the Mafoko Security company is refusing to comply with the investigation by not giving the names of the security guards who were involved in this barbaric act.” But Nare said this was not the case. “We would like to dispel any notion that we are not cooperating with any investigation and place on record that our company legal representative has been in contact with the investigating officer as the matter is still under investigation. “The allegations that have been put before us about an incident involving a senior citizen are very disturbing to say the least. We reiterate that we condemn in the highest form any and all violent unprovoked conduct by any and all our personnel deployed anywhere in the country.” Cape Times