Friends of Table Mountain demanded cameras and drones be used to fight crime on the mountain. Cape Town – Efforts to ensure increased safety on Table Mountain came into sharp focus this week following recent attacks on joggers and hikers. South African National Parks (SANParks) this week hosted a two-day information-sharing field trip to the Table Mountain National Park (TMNP). It was attended by SANParks officials, members of police, law enforcement, and members of the Take Back Our Mountains Movement. The trip aimed to open a window into the intricacies of managing a national park, challenges faced by TMNP and plans and implementation of safety and security. SANParks general manager of area integrity, Nicholas Funda, said challenges included crime and they were looking at all tools available to assist, including air support for rangers. “We have tried using the drones in this park. We came down in October and tested drones where we had some successes, and it’s something that we need to invest in. “We have been looking at ways of getting (tools) to help us. For the first time, we also deployed a SANParks helicopter in December to see how it would assist. It flew for 30 hours of aerial support. Having air support at Table Mountain assisted in seeing areas that are not accessible.” Last week, Friends of Table Mountain (FOTM) demanded increased safety measures be put into place following various attacks. FOTM chair Andy Davies said: “Recently, two joggers were brutally attacked on Tafelberg road. One was beaten up badly and lost teeth whilst the second one landed up in the intensive care unit (ICU) after being stabbed repeatedly. “There have been a number of less violent, but still worrying muggings at Kleinplaas, Signal Hill and Lower Tokai. “We want to see more visitor safety rangers on the mountain, a fully functional canine unit and a dedicated control centre where the public can pro-actively report issues and therefore prevent crime.” He called for the use of technology such as cameras and drones, saying these could help address crime. Cape Times