Cape Town – Covid-19 survivor Claudia Williams thought she would be pain-free after tests came back negative. But almost 10 months after she had been infected, she continues to suffer the after effects of the virus. The Brentwood Park mother still experiences chest pains, severe headaches and struggles to walk long distances. Termed “Long-Covid” sufferers or “Covid long-haulers” by experts, she is among those who experience symptoms for more than 28 days after diagnosis. “What worries me is the short breath and headache. I struggle to breathe during long walks, especially when I am wearing a mask. “When I drive, my body, ligaments are always painful. It's worse and harder because I am unemployed and I can't often go to the doctor frequently when I am not well,” she said. Going through the same experience is Mfuleni resident Pumla Milisi. The 43-year-old thinks she will never be the same. “There’s the body pains and stomach pains. The headaches. And I am always in bed. Getting Covid changed my entire life,” she said. Another Covid-19 survivor, Wonder Moloi, 30 said: “I tested positive in January this year. I think I have long Covid symptoms. My chest is constantly burning. It’s like there's something on my throat. ’’I visited a doctor this week and he did some tests including taking some blood samples and a chest x-ray, I am waiting on that. I can't sleep without windows being opened or where there's not some air ventilation.” Specialist in the Division of Infectious Disease and HIV Medicine at Groote Schuur Hospital, Professor Sipho Dlamini, said: “The people at risk of this are largely not known, but preliminary thinking on this is that women, older persons and those with obesity could be more at risk of this. “As with many aspects of this disease, there are many things that we are still learning about it. As more evidence and more cases get reported our health services will have to adapt so that this group of patients are given care, just as we have done for those needing acute care for Covid-19.” siphokazi.vuso@inl.co.za Cape Times