Cape Town – Uncovered electrical wires illegally strung between shacks were blamed for robbing a Langa family of their five-year-old son, Ovayo Vokwana, after his body came into contact with a zinc structure. Ovayo, who was supposed to start Grade R today, was killed when he was walking between shacks in the Siyahlala informal settlement. The settlement near the Langa train station is where the Passenger Rail Agency (Prasa) wants to relocate residents from to another area. According to the child’s 30-year-old mother, Nomzamo Vokwana, the incident took place on Friday at around 11am. “I sent his older brother to the shop to buy a few items so that I could make food for them and like always, Ovayo tagged along. When they took long to return, I sent my neighbour’s child to go fetch them. “She only returned with the sevenyear-old, saying that Ovayo was lying on the floor dead near the shop. I thought maybe he fainted due to the heat. ’’My neighbour accompanied me to the scene. On the way, I thought he would appear but he didn’t.” Vokwana said she found her son surrounded by residents. His eyes were closed but he was still breathing. “While community leaders searched for a car to transport him to a nearby hospital, I piggybacked him out of the area and went to the main road so that I could stop cars and ask for help. ’’A passer-by offered to drop us at Vanguard hospital and my child was declared dead upon arrival,” said Vokwana. She said Ovayo had been looking forward to starting school, especially after seeing his uniform. “He was a curious and smart child. When I did chores in the house, he always wanted to help before going to play. “The family are really devastated. Funeral arrangements are under way but the issue is that I am currently unemployed and his father, who recently returned from the Eastern Cape, just started with his piece jobs. So any financial assistance would be of great help,” she said. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Langa police were investigating an inquest case. Retracing the steps to where Ovayo was found, community activist Nomzamo Gatuya, 43, showed the Cape Times the zinc structure where the boy was electrocuted. A number of wires criss-crossed from one shack to another, with some barely half a metre above Gatuya’s head. Prasa chairperson Leonard Ramatlakane is expected to host a briefing today to give an update about the Siyahlala informal settlement as the community had been given 10 days’ notice to vacate the tracks. Readers wanting to help Vokwana can contact her on 066 180 0991. Cape Times