Cape Town - An Atlantis assault victim says he has lost confidence and trust in the local SAPS, as he believes his case is not receiving the attention it deserves. Martin Adams said after being assaulted on January 25, and his assailants remaining free to roam the streets, he feels failed by the system. He said he was wrongly accused stealing diving gear from a neighbour, which included oxygen tanks and diving suits. He and another person were then brutally assaulted by people believed to be residents. “I’ve lost trust in the police because I don’t feel they are giving my case the attention it deserves. I was a victim of assault but, with their investigation, they are making me feel more as if I’m a perpetrator. “In the first instance, they would not take the case when it was reported by my wife on January 25, when myself and a friend were chained and dragged to where we were brutally assaulted near the dunes in Mamre, Atlantis,” said Adams. Adams said though he had already given the names and full descriptions of the men who had assaulted him, police have not yet made any arrests. “I suffered severe trauma and, since the assault, I have had lapses in memory after I was also beaten on the head. The men who assaulted me had used a variety of objects which included metal chains, wooden planks and steel rods,” said Adams. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said the matter is being investigated. “The circumstances surrounding an assault GBH case, opened on January 26, are under investigation following an incident on the Silverstroom Road, in Atlantis. No one has been arrested as yet,” said Traut. SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) commissioner Chris Nissen said they have been alerted to the incident and are investigating the matter. “It cannot be that innocent people are being assaulted because others involved in alleged illegal activities are taking the law into their own hands,” said Nissen. A community activist and reliable source, working on high-profile cases in the area and who cannot be named, said according to information, a neighbour is alleged to have paid men to carry out the assault. The person is alleged to be involved in illegal poaching, the source said. “When Adams’ wife called police after he was taken away from their house, she was told that police went to the scene. It is understood that the police had witnessed the assault incident but had not intervened,” said the source. According to the source, while trying to assist the family, police are not forthcoming with information as to why no arrests have yet been made. “The injustice is just horrible. Police had not taken a statement from Adams’ wife when she went to the police station to report it on the day, saying she was not the victim. Adams had given his statement in hospital, while he was still in a state of trauma and shock. “The rot in Atlantis SAPS is deep and needs to be addressed. The fact that police had (allegedly) witnessed the incident makes them complicit. And the fact that the victim gave them names and descriptions of his assailants and no arrests have yet been made, is unacceptable,” said the source. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times 