Cape Town - Police have intensified the search for three suspects who stormed a Khayelitsha shack, as friends watched a soccer game, and opened fire, killing six people on the weekend. Police said a 72 hour activation plan for the mobilisation of resources was instituted after, at about 7:30pm on Saturday, armed suspects stormed the shack in PSJ informal settlement. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said provincial detectives launched a manhunt for the suspects. “As part of an investigation into the murder of six Khayelitsha men, Western Cape provincial detectives have launched a manhunt for three suspects. The investigation follows an incident where the assailants shot and killed five men, seriously wounding two in a shack at the PJS informal settlement on Saturday evening. “The two injured victims were taken to a medical facility where the sixth victim later died. “Reports indicate that the victims between the ages of 29 and 36 were inside a friend’s home at the PJS informal settlement when at approximately 7.30pm three armed suspects entered the shack and started shooting. The deceased men were all from Khayelitsha,” said Potelwa. Siphokazi Mdumane, who’s brother Thembani (36) was among those killed, said she had heard the gunshots and rushed to the scene where she saw the victims scattered and bloody. “My brother came to the house earlier and asked me to put some water so that he could bath and he told me that he is going to his friend’s place, he will be back soon. A few hours later while I was with the children in the house I heard gunshots and they sounded very close. I immediately went to the place. When I arrived, people did not want me to get inside the house because they knew that my brother was one of the victims. I forced my way in and what I saw was terrible. The victims, including my brother, were all lying down with blood on the floor,” she said. “The suspects were seen by people but they are not known in the area. I still want to know what is the cause of all of this because as the family we have no clue what happened.” Following a number of mass shootings in Cape Town last year, police had in November arrested four people for their alleged involvement in the murders. The suspects, aged between 23 and 26 were apprehended in the Eastern Cape and could be linked various mass shooting incidents including Philippi East in June where two people were murdered, Philippi East in July where two people were shot and killed, Gugulethu NY108 in June where three people were killed and Philippi East, in Block 4, Lower Crossroads where five people were killed and one injured, police said. Police are also investigating a triple murder and attempted murder following a shooting on Friday in Ravensmead. Potelwa said Western Cape Anti Gang Unit detectives were investigating. “Reports from the scene indicate that at 9pm, Ravensmead police were called to a house in Eureka Estate. On arrival in Fabriek Street, the bodies of two 16 year old’s and a 45-year-old man were lying outside the house. A fourth person, aged 18 ,who was injured in the shooting had already been taken to a medical facility for treatment. “Reports also indicate suspects in a white vehicle pulled up in front of the residence and fired shots,” Potelwa said. Anyone with information can anonymously contact crime stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. odwa.mkentane@inl.co.za Cape Times