Cape Town - Overberg Fire Services are mourning the death of firefighter Melio van Rooy, killed while battling a raging wildfire in Barrydale. Messages of condolences have poured in after Van Rooy, from Barrydale station, died on Sunday. Two other firefighters from the Overstrand district are in hospital after they were injured in a fire near Gansbaai on the same day. The ongoing Barrydale Brandrivier fire began burning a week ago in the mountains, fanned by strong winds. A structure was also destroyed in the fire. Working on Fire spokesperson Limakatso Khalianyane said by yesterday the Riversdale, Swellendam, Bredasdorp firefighting teams and two fire trucks were assisting the Overberg District Municipality and Cape Nature. “We have a partnership with the land owners and whenever they require our services we respond and mobilise teams. We have three teams on the scene and other teams in the Southern Cape are on high alert,” said Khalianyane. In a statement, the Overstrand Municipality said one vehicle was gutted by the fire in Masakhane mountains near Gansbaai and three injured firefighters who required medical assistance were transported to the Hermanus Mediclinic. “Vehicle skeleton chassis to be recovered by a recovery company. Fire was bombed 30 times as the turnaround time was three minutes. The fire was contained and the crew were busy making lines safe and mop-up will continue,” the municipality said. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell said Van Rooy made the ultimate sacrifice during fire suppression operations. “On behalf of the Western Cape Government, I would like to express our heartfelt sympathy to Mr Van Rooy’s fellow firefighters, his friends and loved ones. This is the second firefighter fatality we have seen this season. The job is never easy and the risks are very real. These tragedies are stark reminders of the life-threatening hazards men and women in the line of duty face on a daily basis,” said Bredell. He added that the province was in its peak fire season, and conditions were difficult with strong wind and high temperatures making the situation very fire-prone. “We want to urge the public to act responsibly by not making outdoor fires in windy conditions and to call the fire services at the earliest possible moment in the event of a fire getting out of hand.” Call 112 to report a fire. okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za Cape Times