Cape Town – Khayelitsha, one one of the country's hard-hit areas by the Covid-19 pandemic, made history yesterday, becoming the first area in South Africa to receive the vaccine among its front-line workers. Labour ward nurse Azoliswa Gidi-Dyosi not only became the first health worker to be vaccinated, but she was also the first person in the country to be injected with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. “The thought about it made me nervous at first, but I'm happy that I did it. My husband was also supportive when I informed him. ’’I feel normal and haven't experienced any side effects so far. I suspect that my manager selected me to go first. After the vaccination, my phone was buzzing as people were calling to check up on me,” she said. Another health worker, Sandar Oliver, an Ambulance Emergency Assistance in the Northern District, said: “It is a privilege to be part of a group of people who made history today.” The country's second largest township became the first to register a Covid-19 case in the Western Cape at the end of March last year. As of yesterday, the Western Cape had 5215 active Covid-19 infections with a total of 272 817 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 256 817 recoveries. Twenty-three additional Covid19 related deaths were recorded, bringing the total in the province to 10962. The Western Cape received 13000 of the 80 000 vaccines that arrived in the country this week. President Cyril Ramaphosa and Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize were among the government officials to receive the jab in Khayelitsha. “I am not going to cry, but can I close my eyes? At first, I was a bit terrified of this long needle that was going to be embedded into my arm, but it happened so quickly and easily, it was just a prick on my flesh. ] “I thank the staff for treating me well, and I'm hoping for the same treatment for every South African who will walk through these doors,” Ramaphosa said. He said the process represented a real milestone for South Africans. “I was pleased that there were five people, healthcare workers who were vaccinated before me. It was a joy to watch them to see if anything would happen to them after being vaccinated, and happily nothing did. This means the vaccination is a fairly straightforward process. I would like to invite South Africans to take this up so that we can all be safe,” Ramaphosa said. A few hours after the process kicked-off at the hospital, the province's largest hospitals, Groote Schuur and Tygerberg, also joined in. Mkhize said an additional 500 000 doses were expected to arrive in the country over the next four weeks. “Our health workers will at longlast get some degree of protection. The vaccines have been spread to 32 sites throughout the country. These are medical research and health-care sites.” At the last provincial digicon on Covid-19, Desmond Tutu Health Foundation chief executive and study co-chair Linda-Gail Bekker said an implementation study approved by the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority was to evaluate real-world effectiveness among healthcare workers as compared to the general unvaccinated population. “Emergency use authorisation is expected between March and April. This is a single vaccination regimen. The vaccine was an Ad26 Sars-CoV-2 vaccine. The Ad26 platform has already been used in Ebola, RSV, Zika and HIV vaccine trials. It is stable at 2-8º,” she said. In his State of the Province Address yesterday, Premier Alan Winde said a Western Cape Covid19 Vaccine Co-ordinating Committee had been estrablished to oversee three core work streams. These were the operational rollout of vaccines by developing a service delivery and distribution model, ensuring cold chain management, and providing adequate human resources. “We will also develop the required information systems that will allow us to do targeted vaccination and to monitor the vaccine roll-out. We will leverage our existing technology to reach those who fall into high-risk groups, such as the elderly and those with comorbidities, to achieve the greatest impact through the vaccine roll-out.” He said the systems were also in place for the province to secure its own vaccines as well preparations for a third wave. Cape Times