Cape Town – A 27-year-old Khayelitsha farmer is appealing for assistance after her business was vandalised by criminals at night. Ncumisa Mkabile, who made headlines in March last year when she founded a chicken farm and later ventured into harvesting, said when she awoke on Wednesday morning, she was shocked to find that her greenhouse had been torn apart, yet nothing was stolen. “Seeing my greenhouse like that broke my heart because I had invested so much in it. “I made the investment with no intention of investing further financially for another five years at least. The cost to fix it is estimated at R30 000 and I don't have that much money at my disposal. “I am a young entrepreneur who has worked extremely hard against all odds to make an honest living not only for myself but for others as well. ’’The thought of someone invading my space and destroying something I am so passionate about is devastating. I cannot afford this setback,” said an emotional Mkabile. The travel and tourism industry graduate had left her day job and ventured into farming with the hope of realising her independent farming dream and creating employment. Mkabile also heads the farming sector for the Khayelitsha Business Forum (KBF), which aims to identify and offer farming courses to those interested in the community and encourage young people to take up farming as a way of securing food. A BackaBuddy funding campaign has since been created to support Mkabile. KBF secretary Thobela Gubudela condemned the incident but said it was not going to deter Ncumisa. “We do not condone any form of sabotage. The area where the farm is located was recently invaded. These are some of the unfortunate challenges that farmers face. “We would really appreciate it if (the government) can assist because all she wants is to motivate young people and create jobs which are desperately needed, especially at a time when the country is faced with Covid-19, and its effects will be felt long after.” Khayelitsha Development Forum's (KDF) chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said what happened to Mkabile was unfortunate and undertook to meet her. To donate towards restoring Mkabile's greenhouse, visit: https://www. backabuddy.co.za/ncumisa-mkabile Cape Times