Cape Town – Despite the R200 million investment from the City to save the ailing Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC), its board has approved voluntary retrenchment and early retirement. At a council meeting last month, a report recommending the investment was approved for a total of R200m – needed as per the Medium Term Revenue and Expenditure Framework for 2020/2 at R34m, and 2021/22 at R164m. “The R200m was not invested on condition that retrenchment might not happen. If the CTICC moves forward with retrenchments, it will be for operational efficiency and the long-term survival of the business, which in turn means protecting jobs in the long run,” CTICC spokesperson Olivia Bruce said. “We continue to look for alternatives to retrenchments such as secondment of staff to organisations that might need the skills our staff has.” In its 2018/2019 annual report, the CTICC said it had 217 staff members – 204 permanent and 13 temporary staff. Bruce said the number of affected staff could not be confirmed as the retrenchment was voluntary. In the report before council calling for the approval of the investment, retrenchment was listed as a further mitigating strategy the company had considered taking to avoid the impending shortfall amid the financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on the events industry. The report stated that, to date, the total value of the revenue lost for the 144 contracted events that were either postponed or cancelled for the period March 2020 to June 2021 amounted to R234m. The City yesterday told the Cape Times it would not be getting involved in the retrenchment matter. “Operational decisions are taken by the CTICC Board. The City is satisfied that the Board is taking appropriate decisions to ensure operational continuity while minimising the need for financial support.” It said there were no conditions for the approval of the investment. “Except that this special class of ordinary shares will be subject to dividends and the entity will have the option to buy back the shares when they are in a financial position to do so. ’’Council approved an amount of up to R200m. The exact amount of funding to be provided to the CTICC will be dependent on their cash-flow requirements.” Cape Times